http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/20286/000002028617000013/cinf-20161231x10k.htm
11182876682.0
CINF
2017-02-24
10-K
CINF_2017-02-24_10-K.txt

10-K 1 cinf-20161231x10k.htm 10-K Document United States Securities and Exchange Commission Washington, D.C. 20549 Form 10-K  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934.
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016.
TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934.
For the transition period from _____________________ to _____________________.
Commission file number 0-4604 Cincinnati Financial Corporation (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Ohio 31-0746871 (State of incorporation) (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) 6200 S. Gilmore Road Fairfield, Ohio 45014-5141 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) (513) 870-2000 (Registrants telephone number, including area code) Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: None Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: $2.00 par, common stock (Title of Class) 6.125% Senior Notes due 2034 (Title of Class) 6.9% Senior Debentures due 2028 (Title of Class) 6.92% Senior Debentures due 2028 (Title of Class) Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes  No  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes  No  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.
Yes  No  Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 1 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 if Regulation S-T(232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes  No  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (229.405 of thischapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrants knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. Seethe definitions of "large accelerated filer, accelerated filer" and smaller reporting company in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
Large accelerated filer  Accelerated filer  Non-accelerated filer  Smaller reporting company  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes  No  The aggregate market value of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the Registrant based on the closing price of $74.89 per share as reported on Nasdaq Global Select Market on June 30, 2016, was $11,182,876,682.
AsofFebruary 20, 2017, there were 164,717,550 shares of common stock outstanding.
Document Incorporated by Reference Portions of the definitive Proxy Statement for Cincinnati Financial Corporations Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 6, 2017, are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 2 2016 A NNUAL R EPORT ON F ORM 10-K T ABLE OF C ONTENTS Part I 4 Item 1.
Business 4 Cincinnati Financial Corporation  Introduction 4 Our Business and Our Strategy 5 Our Segments 15 Other 26 Regulation 26 Item 1A.
Risk Factors 29 Item 1B.
Unresolved Staff Comments 37 Item 2.
Properties 37 Item 3.
Legal Proceedings 37 Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures 37 Part II 38 Item 5.
Market for the Registrants Common Equity, RelatedStockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 38 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 41 Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 42 Introduction 42 Executive Summary 43 Critical Accounting Estimates 48 Recent Accounting Pronouncements 56 Financial Results 57 Liquidity and Capital Resources 88 Safe Harbor Statement 105 Item 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About MarketRisk 107 Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 113 Responsibility for Financial Statements 113 Managements Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 114 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 115 Consolidated Balance Sheets 117 Consolidated Statements of Income 118 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 119 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders Equity 120 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 121 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 122 Item 9.
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 166 Item 9A.
Controls and Procedures 166 Item 9B.
Other Information 166 Part III 167 Item 10.
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 167 Item 11.
Executive Compensation 169 Item 12.
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related StockholderMatters 169 Item 13.
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 169 Item 14.
Principal Accounting Fees and Services 169 Part IV 170 Item 15.
Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 170 Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 3 Part I I TEM 1.Business Cincinnati Financial Corporation  Introduction We are an Ohio corporation formed in 1968. Our lead subsidiary, The Cincinnati Insurance Company, was founded in 1950. Our main business is property casualty insurance marketed through independent insurance agencies in 41states. Our headquarters is in Fairfield, Ohio. Atyear-end 2016, we employed 4,754 associates, including 3,201headquarters associates who provide support to 1,553field associates.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation owns 100percent of three subsidiaries: The Cincinnati Insurance Company, CSUProducer Resources Inc. and CFC Investment Company. In addition, the parent company has an investment portfolio, owns the headquarters property and is responsible for corporate borrowings and shareholder dividends.
The Cincinnati Insurance Company owns 100percent of four additional insurance subsidiaries. Our standard market property casualty insurance group includes two of those subsidiaries  The Cincinnati Casualty Company and The Cincinnati Indemnity Company. This group writes a broad range of business, homeowner and auto policies. The Cincinnati Insurance Company also conducts the business of our reinsurance assumed operations, known as Cincinnati Re SM . Other subsidiaries of TheCincinnati Insurance Company include: TheCincinnati Life Insurance Company (Cincinnati Life), which provides life insurance, disability income policies and fixed annuities; and The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company (Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters), which offers excess and surplus lines insurance products. In this report and elsewhere we often refer to any or all of these five companies as The Cincinnati Insurance Companies.
The two noninsurance subsidiaries of Cincinnati Financial Corporation are CSU Producer Resources, which offers insurance brokerage services to our independent agencies so their clients can access our excess and surplus lines insurance products; and CFC Investment Company, which offers commercial leasing and financing services to our agencies, their clients and other customers.
Our filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) are available on our website, cinfin.com/investors , as soon as possible after they have been filed with the SEC. Reports filed with the SEC may also be viewed at sec.gov or obtained at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. Information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. These filings include annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Inthis report we reference various websites. These websites, including our own, are not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Periodically, we refer to estimated industry data so that we can give information about our performance versus the overall U.S. insurance industry. Unless otherwise noted, the industry data is prepared by A.M.BestCo., a leading insurance industry statistical, analytical and insurer financial strength and credit rating organization. Information from A.M. Best is presented on a statutory accounting basis. When we provide our results on a comparable statutory accounting basis, we label it as such; all other company datais presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP).
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 4 Our Business and Our Strategy Introduction The Cincinnati Insurance Company was founded more than 65 years ago by four independent insurance agents. They established the mission that continues to guide all of the companies in the Cincinnati Financial Corporation family  to grow profitably and enhance the ability of local independent insurance agents to deliver quality financial protection to the people and businesses they serve by:  providing insurance market stability through financial strength  producing competitive, up-to-date products and services  developing associates committed to superior service At year-end 2016, a select group of independent agencies in 41 states actively marketed our property casualty insurance within their communities. Standard market commercial lines and excess and surplus lines policies were marketed in 39 of those states, while personal lines policies were marketed in 35 of those states. Within our select group of agencies, we also seek to become the life insurance carrier of choice and to help agents and their clients  our policyholders  by offering leasing and financing services.
Three competitive advantages distinguish our company, positioning us to build shareholder value and to be successful overall:  Commitment to our professional independent insurance agencies and to their continuedsuccess  Financial strength to fulfill our promises and be a consistent market for our agents business, supporting stability andconfidence  Operating structure that supports local decision making, showcasing our claims excellence and allowing us to balance growth with underwriting discipline The primary sources of our companys net income are summarized below. We discuss the contribution to net income from each source in Item 7, Corporate Financial Highlights of Managements Discussion and Analysis.
Underwriting profit (loss)  Includes revenues from earned premiums for insurance and reinsurance policies or contracts, reduced by losses and loss expenses from associated insurance coverages. Those revenues are further reduced by underwriting expenses associated with marketing policies or related to administration of our insurance operation. The net result represents an underwriting profit when revenues exceed losses and expenses.
Investment income  Is generated primarily from investing the premiums collected for insurance policies sold, until fundsare needed to pay losses for insurance claims or other expenses. Interest income from bond investments or dividend income from stock investments are the main categories of our investment income, with additional contribution from compounding effects over time.
Realized investment gains (losses)  Occur from appreciation or depreciation of invested assets over time. Gainsor losses are generally recognized when invested assets are sold or become impaired.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 5 Independent Insurance Agency Marketplace The U.S. property casualty insurance industry is a highly competitive marketplace with more than 2,000stock and mutual companies operating independently or in groups. No single company or group dominates across all productlines and states. Standard market insurance companies (carriers) can market a broad array of products nationally or:  choose to sell a limited product line or only one type of insurance (monoline carrier)  target a certain segment of the market (for example, personal insurance)  focus on one or more states or regions (regional carrier) Standard market property casualty insurers generally offer insurance products through one or more distributionchannels:  independent agents, who represent multiple carriers  captive agents, who represent one carrier exclusively  direct marketing to consumers For the most part, we compete with standard market insurance companies that market through independent insurance agents. Agencies marketing our commercial lines products typically represent six to 12 standard market insurance carriers for commercial lines products, including both national and regional carriers, most of which are mutual companies. Our agencies typically represent four to six standard personal lines carriers. We also compete with carriers that market personal lines products through captive agents anddirect writers. Some of our agencies describe their roles as brokers instead of agents. Distribution through independent insurance agents or brokers represents nearly 60percent of overall U.S. property casualty insurance premiums and approximately 80percent of commercial property casualty insurance premiums, according to studies by the Independent Insurance Agents and Brokers ofAmerica.
We are fully committed to the independent agency channel for marketing our insurance policies, while our reinsurance assumed operation typically markets through broker organizations or similar intermediaries that specialize in reinsurance. Theindependent agencies that we choose to market our standard lines insurance products share our philosophies. They do business person to person; offer broad, value-added services; maintain sound balance sheets; and manage their agencies professionally, targeting long-term success. We develop our relationships with agencies that are active in their communities, providing important knowledge of local market trends, opportunities and challenges.
We work to support agencies with tools and resources that help communicate the value of our insurance policies to their clients and prospective clients. We plan to build on our recent marketing efforts and continue with our national advertising campaign in 2017. Our intent is to increase the visibility of our company, supporting our agents' efforts as they recommend policies and services offered through The Cincinnati Insurance Companies. We also continue to build our social media presence, focusing on providing content that agents can share on their own sites.
We help our agencies meet the broader needs of their clients and increase and diversify their revenues and profitability by offering insurance solutions beyond our standard market property casualty insurance products. Wemarket life insurance products through the agencies that offer our property casualty products and through other independent life agencies that represent The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company without also representing our other subsidiaries. We operate our own excess and surplus lines insurance brokerage firm and insurance carrier so that we can offer our excess and surplus lines products exclusively to the independent agencies who market our other property casualty insurance products.
For our life insurance operation, property casualty agencies make up the main distribution system. To help that operation buildscale, we also develop life insurance business from other independent life insurance agencies in geographicmarkets underserved through our property casualty agencies. We are careful to solicit business from these other agencies in a manner that does not compete with the life insurance marketing and sales efforts of our property casualty agencies. Cincinnati Life emphasizes up-to-date products, responsive underwriting, high-quality service and competitive pricing.
Our excess and surplus lines insurance operation helps meet the specific insurance needs of certain agency clients. Generally, excess and surplus lines insurance carriers provide insurance that is unavailable in the standard Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 6 market due to market conditions or characteristics of the insured persons or organizations that are caused by their nature, claim history or the characteristics of their business. Insurers operating in the excess and surplus lines marketplace generally market business through excess and surplus lines brokers, whether they are small specialty insurers or specialized divisions of larger insurance organizations. Agencies have access to Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters' product line through CSU Producer Resources, the wholly owned insurance brokerage subsidiary of Cincinnati Financial Corporation. By providing superior service, we can help our agencies grow while also profitably growing our property casualty business.
At year-end 2016, our 1,614 property casualty agency relationships were marketing our standard market insurance products from 2,090 reporting locations. An increasing number of agencies have multiple, separately identifiable locations, reflecting their growth as well as consolidation of ownership within the independent agency marketplace. Thenumber of reporting agency locations indicates our agents regional scope and the extent of ourpresence within our 41active states. At year-end 2015, we had 1,526agency relationships with 1,956 reporting locations.
We made 197new property casualty agency appointments in 2016 and 114 new appointments in 2015, including 116 and 40, respectively, to market only personal lines insurance products for us. Of the total new appointments, 156 and85, respectively, were new relationships. The remainder were either: new branch offices opened by existing Cincinnati agencies; or agencies that merged with another Cincinnati agency and we still believed would produce a meaningful amount of new business premiums. These new appointments may be partially offset by other changes in agency structures, such as consolidation through mergers or acquisitions. Our net increase in agency relationships was 88in 2016 and 60 in 2015. The net increase in reporting agency locations for those same years was 134 and 72, respectively.
On average, we have a 9.7percent share of the standard lines property casualty insurance purchased through our reporting agency locations, according to 2015 data from agency surveys. Our share is 15.8percent in reporting agency locations that have represented us for more than 10years; 8.1percent in agencies that have represented us for sixto 10years; 3.0percent in agencies that have represented us for two to five years; and 0.4percent in agencies that have represented us for one year or less.
Our largest single agency relationship accounted for approximately 0.8percent of our total property casualty earned premiums in 2016. No aggregate locations under a single ownership structure accounted for more than 4percent of our earned premiums in 2016.
Financial Strength We believe that our financial strength and strong capital and surplus position, reflected in our insurer financial strength ratings, are clear, competitive advantages in the segments of the insurance marketplace that we serve. Thisstrength supports the consistent, predictable performance that our policyholders, agents, associates and shareholders have always expected and received, helping us withstand significant challenges.
While the potential exists for short-term financial performance variability due to our exposures to possible natural or man-made catastrophes or to significant capital market losses, the rating agencies consistently assert that we have built appropriate financial strength and flexibility to manage that variability. We remain committed to strategies that emphasize being a consistent, stable market for our agents business rather than seeking short-term benefits that might accrue by quick, opportunistic reaction to changes in market conditions.
We use various principles and practices such as diversification and enterprise risk management to maintain strong capital. For example, we maintain a diversified investment portfolio by reviewing and applying diversification parameters and tolerances.
Our $10.085 billion fixed-maturity portfolio is diversified and exceeds total insurance reserves. Theportfolio had an average rating of A3/A, and its fair value exceeded total insurance reserve liabilities by approximately 30percent at December31,2016. No corporate bond exposure accounted for more than 0.7 percent of our fixed-maturity portfolio, and no municipal exposure accounted for more than 0.3percent.
The strength of our fixed-maturity portfolio provides an opportunity to invest for potential capital appreciation by purchasing equity securities. Our $5.334 billion equity portfolio minimizes concentrations in single stocks or industries. AtDecember31, 2016, no single security accounted for more than 3.8percent of our portfolio of publicly traded common stocks, and no single sector accounted for more than 18percent.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 7 Strong liquidity increases our flexibility through all periods to maintain our cash dividendand to continue to invest in and expand our insurance operations. AtDecember31,2016, weheld $2.162billion of our cash and invested assets at the parent-company level, of which $1.832billion, or 84.7 percent, was invested in common stocks, and $248million, or 11.5percent, was cash and cashequivalents.
We minimize reliance on debt as a source of capital, maintaining a debt-to-total-capital ratio below 20percent. AtDecember 31, 2016, this ratio at 10.3 percent was well below the target limit. Long-term debt at year-end 2016 totaled $787million, up $1 million from year-end 2015, and our short-term debt was $20 million, down from $35million at the end of the prior year. The long-term debt consists of threenonconvertible, noncallable debentures, twodue in 2028and one in2034. Ratings for our long-term debt are discussed in Item 7, Liquidity and Capital Resources, Additional Sources of Liquidity.
At year-end 2016 and 2015, risk-based capital (RBC) for our standard market property casualty insurance, excess and surplus lines insurance and life insurance subsidiaries was strong, far exceeding regulatoryrequirements.
We ended 2016 with a 1.0-to-1 ratio of property casualty premiums to surplus, a key measure of property casualty insurance company capacity and security. A lower ratio indicates more security for policyholders and greater capacity for growth by an insurer. We believe our ratio provides ample flexibility to diversify risk by expanding our operations into new geographies and product areas. The estimated industry average ratio was 0.7-to-1 at year-end 2016.
We ended 2016 with a 7.0percent ratio of life statutory adjusted risk-based surplus to liabilities, a key measure of life insurance company capital strength. The estimated industry average ratio was 12.0percent at year-end 2016. A higher ratio indicates an insurers stronger security for policyholders and capacity to support businessgrowth.
(Dollars in millions) Statutory Information At December 31, 2016 2015 Standard market property casualty insurance subsidiary Statutory capital and surplus $ 4,686 $ 4,412 Risk-based capital 4,715 4,431 Authorized control level risk-based capital 645 582 Risk-based capital to authorized control level risk-based capital ratio 7.3 7.6 Written premium to surplus ratio 1.0 1.0 Excess and surplus lines insurance subsidiary Statutory capital and surplus $ 372 $ 306 Risk-based capital 372 306 Authorized control level risk-based capital 36 35 Risk-based capital to authorized control level risk-based capital ratio 10.4 8.8 Written premium to surplus ratio 0.5 0.6 Life insurance subsidiary Statutory capital and surplus $ 200 $ 208 Risk-based capital 229 227 Authorized control level risk-based capital 40 36 Total liabilities excluding separate account business 3,317 3,132 Risk-based capital to authorized control level risk-based capital ratio 5.8 6.3 Life statutory risk-based adjusted surplus to liabilities ratio 7.0 7.3 The consolidated property casualty insurance groups ratio of investments in common stock, at fair value, to statutory capital and surplus was 69.9percent at year-end 2016 compared with 65.6percent at year-end 2015.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 8 Cincinnati Financial Corporations senior debt is rated by four independent rating firms. In addition, the rating firms award our property casualty and life operations insurance financial strength ratings based on their quantitative and qualitative analyses. These ratings assess an insurers ability to meet financial obligations to policyholders and do not necessarily address all of the matters that may be important to shareholders. Ratings may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the ratings agency, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any otherrating.
At February 22, 2017, our insurance subsidiaries continued to be highly rated.
Insurer Financial Strength Ratings Rating agency Standard market property casualty insurance subsidiary Life insurance subsidiary Excess and surplus lines insurance subsidiary Outlook Rating Tier Rating Tier Rating Tier A. M. Best Co.
ambest.com A+ Superior 2 of 16 A Excellent 3 of 16 A+ Superior 2 of 16 Stable Fitch Ratings fitchratings.com A+ Strong 5 of 21 A+ Strong 5 of 21 - - - Stable Moody's Investors Service moodys.com A1 Good 5 of 21 - - - - - - Stable S&P Global Ratings spratings.com A+ Strong 5 of 21 A+ Strong 5 of 21 - - - Stable On December 13, 2016, A.M. Best affirmed the financial strength rating of TheCincinnati Insurance Company, and its property casualty insurance subsidiaries, that it had assigned in December 2008, continuing its stable outlook. On December 12, 2016, Fitch Ratings affirmed the ratingsthat it had assigned to us in August 2009, continuing itsstable outlook. On May 24, 2016, Moody's Investors Service affirmed the ratings that it had assigned to us in September 2008, continuing its stable outlook. OnJune28,2016, S&P Global Ratings (formerly known as Standard& Poors Ratings Services) affirmed the ratings that it had assigned to us in June 2015, continuing its stable outlook.
Our debt ratings are discussed in Item 7, Liquidity and Capital Resources, Additional Sources of Liquidity.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 9 Operating Structure We offer our broad array of insurance products through the independent agency distribution channel. We recognize that locally based independent agencies have relationships in their communities and local marketplace intelligence that can lead to profitable business and policyholder satisfaction and loyalty. Several of our strategic initiatives areintended not only to help us compete but also to enhance support of agencies that represent us, thereby contributing to agency success. We seek to be a consistent and predictable property casualty carrier that agencies can rely on to serve their clients.
In our 10 highest volume states for consolidated property casualty premiums, 1,140 reporting agency locations wrote61.4percent of our 2016 consolidated property casualty earned premium volume compared with 1,124locations and 62.3percent in 2015. We continue efforts to geographically diversify our property casualtyrisks.
Our 10 largest states based on property casualty premium volume are shown in the table below.
(Dollars in millions) Earned premiums % of total earned Agency locations Average premium per location Year ended December 31, 2016 Ohio $ 754 16.8 % 247 $ 3.1 Illinois 298 6.7 144 2.1 Indiana 270 6.0 113 2.4 Georgia 250 5.6 98 2.6 North Carolina 236 5.3 102 2.3 Pennsylvania 235 5.2 117 2.0 Michigan 233 5.2 141 1.7 Tennessee 174 3.9 62 2.8 Virginia 153 3.4 66 2.3 Kentucky 149 3.3 50 3.0 Field Focus Emphasizing Service We rely on our force of 1,553 field associates to provide service and be accountable to our agencies for decisions we make at the local level. These associates live in the communities our agents serve, so they are readily available when agencies or policyholders need them. While their work is often conducted at the premises of the agency or policyholder, they also work from offices in their homes. Headquarters associates support agencies and field associates with underwriting, accounting, technology assistance, training and other services. Company executives and headquarters associates regularly travel to visit agencies, strengthening the personal relationships we have with these organizations. Agents have opportunities for direct, personal conversations with our senior management team, and headquarters associates have opportunities to refresh their knowledge of marketplace conditions and field activities.
The field team is coordinated by field marketing representatives responsible for underwriting new commercial lines business. They are joined by field representatives specializing in claims, loss control, personal lines, excess and surplus lines, machinery and equipment, bond, premium audit and life insurance. The field team provides a variety of services, such as recommending specific actions to improve the safety of the policyholders operations. We seek to develop long-term relationships by understanding the unique needs of each agency's clients, who are also ourpolicyholders.
Service using technology solutions gives our agencies access to our systems for ease of processing business transactions. Policyholders can also conveniently access pertinent policy information, helping to reduce costs for agencies and the company. We also offer and continue to develop enhanced, tailored services offered at the time a claim is reported for an insured loss event. Those services include assisting with car rental or towing, arranging temporary housing and coordinating emergency repairs to damaged homes so additional damage is minimized.
Technology also helps our associates collaborate and process business efficiently, providing more time for personal service to agencies and their clients when needed.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 10 Our claims philosophy reflects our belief that we prosper as a company by responding to claims person to person, paying covered claims promptly, preventing false claims from unfairly adding to overall premiums and building financial strength to meet future obligations.
Our 877 locally based field claims associates work from their homes and are assigned to specific agencies. Theyrespond personally to policyholders and claimants, and are equipped to handle a claim from nearly anywhere. We believe we have a competitive advantage because of the person-to-person approach and the resulting high level of service that our field claims representatives provide. We also help our agencies provide prompt service to policyholders by giving most agencies authority to immediately pay most first-party claims under standard market policies up to $2,500. We believe this same local approach to handling claimsis a competitive advantage for our agents providing excess and surplus lines coverage in their communities. Handling of these claims includes guidance from headquarters-based excess and surplus lines claims managers.
Catastrophe response teams are comprised of volunteers from our experienced field claims staff who have the authority they need to do their jobs. In times of widespread loss, our field claims representatives confidently and quickly resolve claims, often providing claims payments on the same day they inspect the loss. Technology helps to enable fast initial contact with policyholders and easy sharing of information and data among storm teams, headquarters staff and local field claims representatives. When hurricanes or other weather events are predicted, we can identify through mapping technologies the expected number of our policyholders that may be impacted by the event and choose to have catastrophe response team members travel to strategic locations near the expected impact area. They are then in position to quickly get to the affected area, set up temporary offices and start calling on policyholders.
We staff a Special Investigations Unit (SIU) with former law enforcement and claims professionals whose qualifications make them well suited to gathering facts to uncover potential fraud. While we believe ourjob is to pay what is due under each policy contract, we also want to prevent false claims from unfairlyincreasing overall premiums. Our SIU also operates a computer forensics lab, using sophisticated software to recover data and mitigate the cost of computer-related claims for business interruption and loss of records.
We seek to attract and retain high-quality independent insurance agencies with knowledgeable, professional staffs. In turn, we make an exceptionally strong commitment to assist them in keeping their knowledge up to date and educating new people they bring on board as they grow. This includes offering classes, usually at no cost to agencies, except travel-related expenses they may incur, and other training support. We also offer noninsurance financial services. We believe that providing these services enhances agency relationships with the company and their clients, increasing loyalty while diversifying the agencys revenues.
Insurance Products We provide well-designed property casualty and life insurance to bring policyholders convenience, discounts and areduced risk of coverage gaps or disputes. For most agencies that represent us, we believe we offer insurance solutions for approximately 75percent of the typical insurable risks of their clients. Products for various business lines within our reporting segments include insurance coverages for business property and liability, automobiles andhomes.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 11 The following table shows net written premiums by segment and business line at year-end 2016, 2015 and 2014: (Dollars inmillions) 2016 2015 2014 Percent of total 2016 Segment: Commercial lines insurance $ 3,122 $ 3,025 $ 2,922 64.2 % Personal lines insurance 1,198 1,128 1,068 24.6 Excess and surplus lines insurance 189 175 153 3.9 Life insurance 281 256 250 5.8 Other 71 33  1.5 Total $ 4,861 $ 4,617 $ 4,393 100.0 % Business line: Commercial lines insurance Commercial casualty $ 1,061 $ 1,025 $ 969 21.8 % Commercial property 880 845 776 18.1 Commercial auto 611 575 548 12.6 Workers' compensation 352 357 365 7.2 Other commercial 218 223 264 4.5 Total commercial lines insurance 3,122 3,025 2,922 64.2 Personal lines insurance Personal auto 563 524 489 11.5 Homeowner 500 474 456 10.3 Other personal 135 130 123 2.8 Total personal lines insurance 1,198 1,128 1,068 24.6 Excess and surplus lines insurance 189 175 153 3.9 Life insurance Term life insurance 156 145 138 3.2 Universal life insurance 36 41 41 0.8 Other life insurance, annuity and disability income products 89 70 71 1.8 Subtotal 281 256 250 5.8 Cincinnati Re 71 33  1.5 Total $ 4,861 $ 4,617 $ 4,393 100.0 % We discuss our commercial lines, personal lines and excess and surplus lines insurance segments as well as our life insurance segment in their respective sections later in this report.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 12 Strategic Initiatives to Manage Insurance Profitability and Drive Premium Growth Management has identified a strategy that can position us for long-term success. The board of directors and management expect execution of our strategic plan to create significant value for shareholders over time. Webroadly group key strategic initiatives into two areas of focus  managing insurance profitability and driving premium growth. These areas correlate with how we measure progress toward our long-term financial objectives. Our strategic priorities include meeting the wants and needs of our agent customers, attracting and developing talented associates, providing comprehensive product solutions, achieving best-in-class field service and continually enhancing operational efficiency and effectiveness. We believe successful execution of our long-term strategy and related shorter-term initiatives will help us achieve our long-term objectives despite potential unfavorable shorter-term effects of difficult economic, market or pricing cycles. We describe our expectations for the results of these initiatives in Item 7, Executive Summary of Management's Discussion and Analysis.
Effective capital management is an important part of creating long-term shareholder value, serving as a foundation to support other strategic areas focused on profitable growth of our insurance business. Our capital management philosophy is intended to preserve and build our capital while maintaining appropriate liquidity. Astrong capital position provides the capacity to support premium growth, and liquidity provides for our investment in the people and infrastructure needed to implement our strategic initiatives. Our strong capital and liquidity also provide financial flexibility for shareholder dividends or other capital management actions.
We continue to enhance our property casualty underwriting expertise and to effectively and efficiently underwriteindividual policies and process transactions. Ongoing initiatives supporting this work include expanding our pricing and segmentation capabilities through experience and use of predictive analytics and additional data. Our segmentation efforts emphasize identification and retention of insurance policies we believe have relatively stronger pricing, while seeking more aggressive renewal terms and conditions on policies we believe have relatively weaker pricing. We will continue collaborative efforts to address underpriced or underperforming business in 2017, including improving underwriting and rate adequacy for our commercial auto and personal auto lines of business.
We take ongoing actions intended to improve efficiency and make it easier for agencies and their clients to do business with us. In addition to benefiting agencies we serve, improved processes support our strategy, helping to more quickly deploy product or service enhancements. They also help reduce internal costs and allow us to focus more resources on agency services and providing local, individualized insurance solutions for small businesses and other agency clients. Initiatives include continuing to enhance the experiences of agencies and policy consumers through real-time messaging to an agency's management system and further development of online portals providing more robust policy information for billing, claims and other areas. Other ongoing initiatives aim for continuous improvement of workflow tools and processes for underwriters.
We also seek to further penetrate insurance markets as we strive to be the best company serving independent insurance agencies. We expect initiatives aimed at specific market opportunities, along with enhancements to provide industry-leading services, to encourage our agents to grow and to increase our share of their business. Ourgrowth plans incorporate general business statistics and historical profitability trends to estimate premium growth from existing agencies and to make careful projections to assess the number of additional agencies needed. Our focus remains on key components of agent satisfaction based on factors that agents tell us are most important.
We continue to appoint new agencies to develop additional points of distribution. In 2017, we are planning approximately 100 appointments of independent agencies that offer most or all of our property casualty insurance products. We generally earn a 10 percent share of an agency  s business within 10years of its appointment. SeeItem 1, Our Business and Our Strategy, Independent Insurance Agency Marketplace, for additional discussion.
We also plan to appoint other agencies that focus on high net worth personal lines clients. In 2017, we are targeting the appointment of approximately 100 agencies that market only personal lines insurance products for us, primarily ones with a high net worth focus. In 2016, we appointed 116 new agencies that meet that criteria. As we continue to expand availability of our Executive Capstone suite of insurance products and services to additional states over the next several years, we intend to appoint additional agencies as we work to become the carrier of choice for this portion of our agencies accounts.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 13 For all of our insurance products, we will work to increase penetration with recently appointedagencies. This includes increasing opportunities for agencies to cross-serve their clients by providing updated products and services that aim to meet their life insurance needs. We will also continue to add field marketing representatives or provide target market expertise where needed for additional agency support in selected areas. We expect our strategy and initiatives to contribute to our objective of being ranked the No. 1 or No. 2 carrier based on premium volume in agencies that have represented us for at least five years. We continued to reach that objective in nearly 75 percent of such agencies based on 2015 premiums.
During 2017, we will continue to produce premiums through the disciplined expansion of Cincinnati Re  our reinsurance assumed operation. Cincinnati Re assumes risks through reinsurance treaties covering various lines of business where we receive a share of premiums and associated liabilities from other insurers and reinsurers. We have staffed this operation with seasoned underwriting and analytical talent and strive to assume risks that we understand well, both quantitatively and qualitatively. We seek risks that have attractive underwriting margins on a stand - alone basis as well as on a diversified risk-adjusted return basis. We have adequate capital to support this operation and intend to be selective and patient in its expansion.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 14 Our Segments Consolidated financial results primarily reflect the results of our five reporting segments. These segments are defined based on financial information we use to evaluate performance and to determine the allocation of assets.
Commercial lines insurance  Personal lines insurance  Excess and surplus lines insurance  Life insurance  Investments Revenues, income before income taxes and identifiable assets for each segment are shown in Item8, Note 18 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Some of that information is discussed in this section, where we explain the business operations of each segment. Thefinancial performance of each segment is discussed in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
Commercial Lines Insurance Segment In 2016, the commercial lines insurance segment contributed net earned premiums of $3.089billion, representing 56.7 percent of consolidated total revenues. This segment reported profit before income taxes of $184million. Commercial lines net earned premiums rose 3percent in 2016 and 5percent in 2015.
We believe that our commercial lines business is best measured and evaluated on a segment basis. However, we also provide selected line of business data to summarize growth and profitability trends separately for our business lines. The five commercial business lines are:  Commercial casualty  Provides coverage to businesses against third-party liability from accidents occurring on their premises or arising out of their operations, including injuries sustained from products or liability related to professional services. Specialized casualty policies may include similar coverage such as umbrella liability or employment practices. The commercial casualty business line includes liability coverage written as part of commercial packagepolicies.
Commercial property  Provides coverage for loss or damage to buildings, inventory and equipment caused by covered causes of loss such as fire, wind, hail, water, theft and vandalism, as well as business interruption resulting from a covered loss. Commercial property also includes other coverages such as inland marine, which covers losses related to builders risk, cargo or equipment. Various property coverages can be written as stand-alone policies or can be added to a commercial package policy.
Commercial auto  Protects businesses against liability to others for both bodily injury and propertydamage, medical payments to insureds and occupants of their vehicles, physical damage to aninsureds own vehicle from collision and various other perils, and damages caused by uninsuredmotorists.
Workers compensation  Covers employers for government-specified benefits from work-related injuries toemployees.
Other commercial lines  This includes several other types of insurance products for businesses, including:  Management liability and surety  Includes director and officer (D&O) liability insurance, which covers liability for actual or alleged errors in judgment, breaches of duty or other wrongful acts related to activities of organizations and can optionally include other liability coverages. We market primarily to nonprofit organizations, privately held businesses, healthcare organizations, financial institutions and educational institutions. The for-profit portion includes approximately 225 bank or savings and loan financial institutions, with only seven having assets of $1 billion or more. The surety portion includes contract and commercial surety bonds for losses resulting from dishonesty, failure to perform and other acts and also includes fidelity bonds for fraudulent acts by specified individuals or dishonest acts by employees.
Specialty packages  Includes coverages for property, liability and business interruption tailored to meet the needs of specific industry classes such as artisan contractors, dentists or smaller main street businesses.
Machinery and equipment  Specialized coverage provides protection for loss or damage to boilers and machinery, including production and computer equipment and business interruption, due to sudden and accidental mechanical breakdown, steam explosion or artificially generated electricalcurrent.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 15 Our history of emphasizing products and services that agencies can market to small to midsized businesses in their communities remains a critical piece of our strategy even as we expand our appetite to insure larger businesses. Whilesome of our property casualty agencies market only our personal lines or management liability and surety products, approximately 90 percent offer some or all of our standard market commercial insuranceproducts.
In 2016, our 10 highest volume commercial lines states generated 59.4percent of our earned premiumscompared with 59.3percent in 2015 as we continued efforts to geographically diversify our property casualty risks. Earned premiums in the 10 highest volume states increased 3percent in 2016and also increased 3percent in the remaining states. The aggregate number of reporting agency locations in our 10highest volume states increased to 1,115in 2016 from 1,101 in 2015.
Our 10 largest states based on commercial lines premium volume are shown in the table below.
(Dollars in millions) Earned premiums % of total earned Agency locations Average premium per location Year ended December 31, 2016 Ohio $ 449 14.5 % 244 $ 1.8 Illinois 217 7.0 138 1.6 Pennsylvania 199 6.4 110 1.8 Indiana 183 5.9 111 1.6 North Carolina 157 5.1 100 1.6 Georgia 141 4.6 90 1.6 Michigan 138 4.5 132 1.0 Tennessee 123 4.0 60 2.1 Virginia 121 3.9 62 2.0 Texas 108 3.5 68 1.6 For new commercial lines business, case-by-case underwriting and pricing is coordinated by our locally based field marketing representatives who are also responsible for selecting new independent agencies. Our agents and our team of field associates get to know the people and businesses in their communities and can make informed decisions about each risk.
Commercial lines policy renewals are managed by headquarters underwriters who are assigned to specific agencies and consult with local field staff as needed. As part of our team approach, headquarters underwriters also help oversee agency growth and profitability. They are responsible for formal issuance of all new business and renewal policies as well as policy endorsements. Further, the headquarters underwriters provide day-to-day customer service to agencies and our field marketing representatives by offering product training, answering underwritingquestions, helping to determine underwriting eligibility and assisting with the mechanics of premiumdetermination. We also continue a target markets emphasis to analyze opportunities and to develop new products and services, new coverage options and improvements to existing insurance products.
Understanding evolving market conditions is a critical function for our success, accomplished through both informal commentary and formal reviews. Informally, our field marketing representatives, underwriters and product development associates routinely receive market intelligence from a variety of channels, including from the agencies with which they work. This market information helps identify the top competitors and our market strengths and weaknesses. The information obtained encompasses pricing, breadth of coverage and use of underwriting guidelines.
Our historical emphasis on small to midsized businesses is reflected in the mix of our commercial lines premium volume by policy size. Approximately 80 percent of our commercial in-force policies have annual premiums of $10,000 or less, accounting in total for approximately one-quarter of our 2016 commercial lines premium volume. The remainder of policies have annual premiums greater than $10,000, including policies with annual premiums greater than $100,000 that account for approximately 19 percent of our 2016commercial lines premium volume.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 16 Our commercial lines packages typically are offered on a three-year policy term for most insurance coverages  akey competitive advantage. In our experience, multi-year packages appeal to the quality-conscious insurance buyers who we believe are typical clients of our independent agents. Customized insurance programs on a three-year term complement the long-term relationships these policyholders typically have with their agents and with our company. By reducing annual administrative efforts, multi-year policies lower expenses for our company and for our agents. The commitment we make to policyholders encourages long-term relationships and reduces their need to annually re-evaluate their insurance carrier or agency. We believe that the advantages of three-year policies in terms of improved policyholder convenience, increased account retention and reduced administrative costs outweigh the potential disadvantage of these policies, even in periods of risingrates.
Although we offer three-year policy terms, premiums for some coverages within those policies are adjustable at anniversary for the next annual period, and policies may be canceled at any time at the discretion of the policyholder. Contract terms often provide that rates for property, general liability, inland marine and crime coverages, as well as policy terms and conditions, are fixed for the term of the policy. However, the exposure we insure is reviewed annually, near the policy anniversary date, and the amount of premiums may be adjusted based on changes to that exposure.
Thegeneral liability exposure basis may be audited annually. Commercial auto, workers compensation, professional liability and most umbrella liability coverages within multi-year packages are rated at each of the policys annual anniversaries for the next one-year period. The annual pricing could incorporate rate changes approved by state insurance regulatory authorities between the date the policy was written and its annual anniversary date, as well as changes in risk exposures and premium credits or debits relating to lossexperience and other underwriting judgment factors. We estimate that approximately 75percent of 2016 commercial premiums were subject to annual rating or were written on a one-year policy term. That 75 percent includes approximately one-third of policies offered on a three-year policy term that expire during any given year.
We believe our commercial lines insurance segment premiums reflect a higher concentration, relative to industry commercial lines premiums, in contractor-related businesses. Since economic activity related to construction, which can heavily influence insured exposures of contractors, may experience cycles that varysignificantly with the economy as a whole, our commercial lines premium trends could vary from commercial lines premium trends for the property casualty insurance industry. In 2016, we estimated that 40 percent of our general liability premiums, and 39 percent of our workers compensation premiums, came from the construction industry based on North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) codes.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 17 Personal Lines Insurance Segment The personal lines insurance segment contributed net earned premiums of $1.161billion to 2016 consolidated totalrevenues, or 21.3percent of the total, and reported a loss before income taxes of $12million. Personallines net earned premiums rose 6percent in 2016 and 5percent in 2015.
We prefer to write personal lines coverage in accounts that include both auto and homeowner coverages as well as coverages that are part of our other personal business line. At the end of 2016, for example, 83.3 percent of our homeowner policies were accompanied by a personal auto policy in the same account. Asa result of our account-based approach, we believe that our personal lines business is best measured and evaluated on a segment basis. However, we provide line of business data to summarize growth and profitability trends separately for three businesslines:  Personal auto  Protects against liability to others for both bodily injury and property damage, medical payments to insureds and occupants of their vehicle, physical damage to an insureds own vehicle from collision and various other perils, and damages caused by uninsured motorists. In addition, many states require policies to provide first-party personal injury protection, frequently referred to as no-faultcoverage.
Homeowner  Protects against losses to dwellings and contents from a wide variety of perils, as well as liability arising out of personal activities both on and off the covered premises. We also offer coverage for condominium unit owners and renters.
Other personal lines  This includes the other types of insurance products we offer to individuals, including dwelling fire, inland marine, personal umbrella liability and watercraft coverages.
At year-end 2016, we marketed personal lines insurance products through 1,511, or approximately 72 percent, of our2,090agency reporting locations. The 1,511 personal lines agency locations are in 35 of the 41 states in which we offered property casualty insurance. Those agencies produced more than 1.1 million personal lines policies in force for us, representing approximately 450,000 policyholders.
Wecontinue to evaluate opportunities to expand our marketing of personal lines to other states. Primary factors considered in the evaluation of a potential new state include market opportunity or potential, weather-related catastrophe history and the legal climate.
Expansion of our personal lines insurance segment includes marketing through independent agencies to profitably grow our premiums for products and services offered to their high net worth personal lines clients. In 2016, California, New Jersey and Colorado became new states for our personal lines operation when we began offering our Executive Capstone program for high net worth clients and appointing new agencies. At year-end 2016, our appointed agencies produced for us nearly $180 million in annual premiums from policyholders with insured home values of $1 million or more. We estimate those policyholders represent approximately 5 percent of our total personal lines policyholders.
In 2016, our 10 highest volume personal lines states generated 77.1percent of our earned premiums compared with 78.5percent in 2015. Earned premiums in the fivehighest volume states increased 4percent in 2016while increasing 8percent in the remaining states, reflecting progress toward our long-term objective of geographic diversification through new states for our personal lines operation. The aggregatenumber of reporting agency locations in our 10highest volume states decreased to 878 in 2016 from 883 in 2015.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 18 Our 10 largest states based on personal lines premium volume are shown in the table below.
(Dollars in millions) Earned premiums % of total earned Agency locations Average premium per location Year ended December 31, 2016 Ohio $ 290 25.0 % 224 $ 1.3 Georgia 97 8.4 86 1.1 Michigan 87 7.5 107 0.8 Indiana 76 6.5 86 0.9 North Carolina 71 6.1 86 0.8 Illinois 68 5.9 95 0.7 Alabama 59 5.1 48 1.2 Kentucky 55 4.7 43 1.3 Tennessee 47 4.0 48 1.0 Minnesota 45 3.9 55 0.8 New and renewal personal lines business reflects our risk-specific underwriting philosophy. Each agency selects personal lines business primarily from within the geographic territory that it serves, based in part on agency staffsknowledge of the risks in those communities or familiarity with the policyholder. At year-end 2016, we had 17full-time personal lines field marketing representatives who have underwriting authority and visit agencies on a regular basis. They focus primarily on key states targeted for growth, reinforcing the advantages of our personal lines products and offering training in the use of our policy processing system. Personal lines activities are further supported by headquarters associates assigned to individual agencies.
Excess and Surplus Lines Insurance Segment The excess and surplus lines segment contributed net earned premiums of $183million to 2016 consolidated total revenues, or 3.4percent of the total, and reported profit before income taxes of $62million. Excess and surplus lines net earned premium increased 9percent in 2016 and 14percent in 2015.
Our excess and surplus lines policies typically cover business risks with unique characteristics, such as the nature of the business or its claim history, that are difficult to profitably insure in the standard commercial lines market. Excess and surplus lines insurers have more flexibility in coverage terms and rates compared with standard lines companies, generally resulting in policies with higher rates and terms and conditions customized for specific risks, including restricted coverage where appropriate. We target small to midsized risks, and policyholders in many cases also have standard market insurance with one of our other subsidiaries. Our average excess and surplus lines policy size is approximately $6,000 in annual premiums, and the majority have coverage limits of $1million or less. All of our excess and surplus lines policies are written for a maximum term of one year. Approximately 88percent of our 2016 earned premiums for the excess and surplus lines insurance segment provided commercial casualty coverages and about 12percent provided commercial property coverages. Those coverages are describedbelow.
Commercial casualty  Covers businesses for third-party liability from accidents occurring on their premises orarising out of their operations, including injuries sustained from products. Other coverages available include miscellaneous errors and omissions, professional liability and excess liability. Typical businesses covered includecontractors, manufacturers, real estate owners and managers, retail, consultants, and bars or taverns. Policies covering liability at special events are also available.
Commercial property  Insures buildings, inventory, equipment and business income from loss or damage due to causes such as fire, wind, hail, water, theft and vandalism. Examples of property we commonly insure with excess and surplus lines policies include temporarily vacant buildings, habitational, restaurants and relatively higher-hazard manufacturing classes.
At the end of 2016, we marketed excess and surplus lines insurance products in each of the 39 states in which we offer standard market commercial lines insurance. Offering excess and surplus lines helps agencies representing The Cincinnati Insurance Companies meet the insurance needs of their clients when coverage is unavailable in the Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 19 standard market. By providing outstanding service, we can help agencies grow and prosper while also profitably growing our property casualty business.
In 2016, our 10 highest volume excess and surplus lines states generated 58.1 percent of our earned premiums compared with 59.2 percent in 2015.
Our 10 largest states based on excess and surplus lines premium volume are shown in the table below.
(Dollars in millions) Earned premiums % of total earned Year ended December 31, 2016 Texas $ 16 8.8 % Ohio 16 8.5 Illinois 13 7.2 Georgia 12 6.6 Indiana 11 6.2 Alabama 8 4.4 North Carolina 8 4.2 Michigan 8 4.1 Pennsylvania 8 4.1 Missouri 7 4.0 Agencies representing The Cincinnati Insurance Companies produce approximately $3 billion in annual premiums for all carriers writing excess and surplus lines policies for their clients. We estimate that approximately half of that premium volume matches the targeted business types and coverages we offer through our excess and surplus lines insurance segment. We structured the operations of this segment to meet the needs of these agencies and to market exclusively through them.
Agencies have access to Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters' product line through CSUProducer Resources, the wholly owned insurance brokerage subsidiary of CincinnatiFinancial Corporation. CSU Producer Resources has binding authority on all classes of business written through Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters and maintains appropriate agent and surplus lines licenses.
We seek to earn a share of each agencys best excess and surplus lines accounts by offering several unique benefits. Agency producers have direct access through CSU Producer Resources to a group of our underwriters who focus exclusively on excess and surplus lines business. Those underwriters can tap intobroader services we offer to provide policyholders additional value and help producers build the relationship through experienced and responsive loss control services and claims handling. CSU Producer Resources gives extra support to our independent agency producers by remitting surplus lines taxes and stamping fees and retaining admitted market diligent searchaffidavits, whererequired. Agencies marketing through CSU Producer Resources instead of a competing brokeragegenerally receive a higher commission because use of our internal brokerage subsidiary eliminates someof the intermediary costs. This business is factored in their profit-sharing agreement with TheCincinnati Insurance Companies. We also offer prompt service, generally issuing approximately 95 percent of policies within 24 hours of a request to bind a policy.
Life Insurance Segment The life insurance segment contributed $228million of net earned premiums, representing 4.2percent of 2016 consolidated total revenues, and reported a profit before income taxes of $1million. Lifeinsurance net earned premiums grew 9percent in 2016 and 6percent in 2015.
The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company supports our agency-centered business model by deepening the relationships we have with agents while also diversifying revenue and profitability for both the agency and our company. Weprimarily focus on life products that feature a steady stream of premium payments and that have the potential for generating revenue growth through increasing demand.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 20 Life Insurance Business Lines Four lines of business  term life insurance, universal life insurance, worksite products and whole life insurance  account for 95.3percent of the life insurance segments revenues:  Term life insurance  Policies under which a death benefit is payable only if the insured dies during aspecific period of time. Policy options include a return of premium provision, abenefit equal to the sum of all paid base premiums that is payable if the insured person survivesto the end of the term. The policies are fully underwritten utilizing traditional and accelerated methods.
Universal life insurance  Long-duration life insurance policies that are fully underwritten. Contract premiums are neither fixed nor guaranteed; however, the contract does specify a minimum interest crediting rate and a maximum cost of insurance charge and expense charge. The cash values, available as a loan collateralized by the cash surrender value, are not guaranteed and depend on the amount and timing of actual premium payments and the amount of actual contract assessments.
Worksite products  Term life insurance, return of premium term life insurance, whole life insurance, universal life and disability insurance offered to employees through their employer. Premiums are collected by the employer using payroll deduction. Policies are issued using a simplified underwriting approach and on a guaranteed issue basis. Worksite insurance products provide our property casualty agency force with excellent cross-serving opportunities for both commercial and personal accounts.
Whole life insurance  Policies that provide life insurance for the entire lifetime of the insured. The death benefit is guaranteed never to decrease and premiums are guaranteed never to increase. Whilepremiums are fixed, they must be paid as scheduled. These policies provide guaranteed cashvalues that are available as loans collateralized by the cash surrender value. The policies are fullyunderwritten.
In addition, Cincinnati Life markets:  Disability income insurance that provides monthly benefits to offset the loss of income when the insured person is unable to work due to accident or illness.
Deferred annuities that provide regular income payments that commence after the end of a specified periodor when the annuitant attains a specified age. During the deferral period, any payments made under the contract accumulate at the crediting rate declared by the company but not less than a contract-specified guaranteed minimum interest rate. A deferred annuity may be surrendered during the deferral period for acash value equal to the accumulated payments plus interest less the surrender charge, if any.
Immediate annuities that provide some combination of regular income and lump-sum payments in exchange for a single premium.
Life Insurance Distribution Our life insurance subsidiary is licensed in 49 states and the District of Columbia. At year-end 2016, approximately 83 percent of our 2,090 property casualty agency reporting locations offered Cincinnati Life products to their clients. We also develop life business from approximately 575 other independent life insurance agencies. We are careful to solicit business from these other agencies in a manner that does not conflict with or compete with the marketing and sales efforts of our property casualty agencies.
When marketing through our property casualty agencies, we have specific competitive advantages:  Because our property casualty operations are held in high regard, property casualty agency management is predisposed to consider selling our life products.
Marketing efforts for both our property casualty and life insurance businesses are directed by our field marketingdepartment, which assures consistency of communication and operations. Life field marketing representatives are available to meet face-to-face with agency personnel and their clients as well. Our life headquarters underwriters and other associates are available to the agents and field team to assist in the placement of business.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 21 We continue to emphasize the cross-serving opportunities of our life insurance, including term and worksite products, for the property casualty agencys personal and commercial accounts. In both the property casualty and independent life agency distribution systems, we enjoy the advantages of offering competitive, up-to-date products and providing personal attention in combination with financial strength and stability.
Term life insurance is our largest life insurance product line. We continue to introduce new term products with features our agents indicate are important, such as a return of premium benefit and an option for an accelerated underwriting product for our personal lines agents.
We also offer products addressing the needs of businesses with key person and buy-sell coverages. Weoffer quality, personal life insurancecoverage to personal and commercial clients of our agencies.
Because of our strong capital position, we can offer a competitive product portfolio, including guaranteed products, giving our agents a marketing edge. Our life insurance company maintains strong insurer financial strength ratings: A.M. Best, A (Excellent); Fitch, A+ (Strong); and S&P Global Ratings A+(Strong). Our life insurance company has chosen not to establish a Moodysrating.
In 2016, our five highest volume states for life insurance premiums, based on information contained in statements filed with state insurance departments, are reflected in the table below.
(Dollars in millions) Premiums % of total earned Year ended December 31, 2016 Ohio $ 50 17.9 % Pennsylvania 20 7.2 Illinois 17 6.2 Indiana 17 6.1 Georgia 14 5.0 Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 22 Investments Segment Revenues of the investments segment are primarily from net investment income and from net realized investment gains and losses from investment portfolios managed for the holding company and each of the operating subsidiaries.
Our investment department operates under guidelines set forth in our investment policy along with oversight of the investment committee of our board of directors. These guidelines set parameters for risk tolerances governing, among other items, the allocation of the portfolio as well as security and sector concentrations. These parameters are part of an integrated corporate risk management program. When allocating cash to various asset classes, we consider market-based factors such as risk adjusted after-tax yields as well as internal measures based in part on insurance department regulations and rating agency guidance.
The fair value of our investment portfolio was $15.419 billion and $14.356 billion at year-end2016 and 2015, respectively, as shown in the table below. The overall portfolio remained in an unrealized gain position as equity markets were up in 2016. Value stocks and stocks with above market yields, similar to the general makeup of ourportfolio, outperformed the broader market in 2016. The unrealized gain position in our fixed-maturity investments decreased slightly in 2016, due to a general increase in interest rates somewhat offset by a tightening in corporate credit spreads.
(Dollars in millions) At December 31, 2016 At December 31, 2015 Cost or amortized cost Percent of total Percent of total Cost or amortized cost Percent of total Percent of total Fair value Fair value Taxable fixed maturities $ 6,381 49.9 % $ 6,630 43.0 % $ 6,170 50.3 % $ 6,353 44.3 % Tax-exempt fixed maturities 3,418 26.7 3,455 22.4 3,154 25.7 3,297 23.0 Common equity securities 2,812 22.0 5,123 33.2 2,749 22.4 4,485 31.2 Nonredeemable preferred equity securities 183 1.4 211 1.4 189 1.6 221 1.5 Total $ 12,794 100.0 % $ 15,419 100.0 % $ 12,262 100.0 % $ 14,356 100.0 % The cash we generate from insurance operations historically has been invested in two broad categories ofinvestments:  Fixed-maturity investments  Includes taxable and tax-exempt bonds and redeemable preferred stocks. During2016, purchases offset the combined effect of a net decrease in unrealized gains and sales and calls of fixed-maturity securities in our portfolio. Likewise during 2015, purchases offset the combined effect of a net decrease in unrealized gains, sales and calls.
Equity investments  Includes common and nonredeemable preferred stocks. During 2016, purchasesand a net increase in unrealized gains offsetsales of equity securities in our portfolio. During 2015, the combined effect of a net decrease in unrealized gains and sales offset purchases.
At year-end 2016, less than 1percent of the value of our investment portfolio was made up of securities that are classified as Level 3 assets and that require managements judgment to develop pricing or valuation techniques. We generally obtain at least two outside valuations for these assets and generally use the more conservative estimate. These investments include private placements, small issues and various thinly traded securities. SeeItem7, Critical Accounting Estimates, Fair Value Measurements, and Item 8, Note3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional discussion of our valuationtechniques.
In addition to securities held in our investment portfolio, other invested assets included $31million of life policy loans, $23 million of private equity investments and $27 million of real estate through direct property ownership and development projects in the United States at year-end 2016.
Our investment portfolio is further described below. Additional information about the composition of investments is included in Item 8, Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. A detailed listing of our portfolio is updated on our website, cinfin.com/investors , each quarter when we report our quarterly financial results.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 23 Fixed-Maturity Securities Investments By maintaining a well-diversified fixed-maturity portfolio, we attempt to manage overall interest rate, reinvestment, credit and liquidity risk. We pursue a buy-and-hold strategy and do not attempt to make large-scale changes to the portfolio in anticipation of rate movements. By investing new money on a regular basis and analyzing risk-adjusted after-tax yields, we work to achieve a laddering effect to our portfolio that may mitigate some of the effects of adverse interest rate movements.
At December 31, 2016, our investment-grade and noninvestment-grade fixed-maturity securities represented 88.4percent and 4.4percent of the portfolio, respectively. The remaining 7.2percent represented fixed-maturity securities that were not rated by Moodys or S&P Global Ratings. Our nonrated securities include smaller municipal issues and private placement corporate securities. Many of these, although not rated by Moodys or Standard & Poors, are rated by the NAICs Securities Valuation Office. Also included in this category are smaller public corporate securities, many of which carry a rating by an agency other than Moodys or S&P, such as Fitch or Kroll.
Other selected attributes of the fixed-maturity portfolio are shown in the table below. Additional maturity periodsandother information for our fixed-maturity portfolio are shown in Item 8, Note 2 of the Consolidated FinancialStatements.
At December 31, 2016 2015 Weighted average yield-to-amortized cost 4.54 % 4.70 % Weighted average maturity 7.1 yrs 6.9 yrs Effective duration 5.0 yrs 4.7 yrs The fair values of our taxable fixed-maturity securities portfolio at the end of the last two years were: (Dollars in millions) At December 31, 2016 2015 Investment-grade corporate $ 5,336 $ 5,060 States, municipalities and political subdivisions 373 314 Noninvestment-grade corporate 445 393 Commercial mortgage-backed 287 289 Government-sponsored enterprises 164 278 Foreign government 10 10 United States government 10 4 Convertibles and bonds with warrants attached 5 5 Total $ 6,630 $ 6,353 While our strategy typically is to buy and hold fixed-maturity investments to maturity, we monitor credit profiles and fair value movements when determining holding periods for individual securities. With the exception of U.S. agency issues, noindividual issuer's securities accounted for more than 1.1percent of the taxable fixed-maturity portfolio at year-end2016. Investment-grade corporate bonds had an average rating of Baa2 by Moodys or BBB+ by S&P at year-end 2016. Most of the $373million of securities issued by states, municipalities and political subdivisions included in our taxable fixed-maturity portfolio at the end of 2016 were Build America Bonds.
Relative to a broad bond market index such as the Barclays Aggregate, we are most heavily exposed to the investment grade corporate bond asset class. Within that asset class we have a weighting of 42.5 percent, higher than the 29 percent weighting for the financial sector of the Banc of America/Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Bond index. Relative to the Barclays Aggregate Index we are overweight in the commercial mortgage-backed securities asset class while having no exposure to the much larger residential mortgage-backed market.
At December 31, 2016, we had $3.455 billion of tax-exempt fixed-maturity securities with an average rating of Aa2/AA by Moodys and S&P. The portfolio is well diversified among more than 1,400 municipal bond issues. Nosingle municipal issuer accounted for more than 0.7percent of the tax-exempt fixed-maturity portfolio at year-end 2016.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 24 Equity Securities Investments After covering both our intermediate and long-range insurance obligations with fixed-maturity investments, wehistorically have used some available cash flow to invest in equity securities. Our equity securities portfolioincludes common stocks and nonredeemable preferred stocks. Investment in equity securities hasplayedanimportant role in achieving our portfolio objectives and has contributed to portfolio appreciation. Weremaincommitted to our long-term equity focus, which we believe is key to our companys long-term growthandstability. We believe our strategy of primarily investing in a diversified selection of larger-capitalization, high-quality, dividend-increasing companies generally results in reduced volatility relative to the broader equitymarkets.
At year-end 2016, no holding had a fair value greater than 3.8percent of our common stock portfolio. JP Morgan Chase & Co. (NYSE:JPM) was our largest single common stock investment, comprising 3.8percent of our publicly traded common stock portfolio and 1.3percent of the entire investmentportfolio. Theparent company held 35.8percent of our common stock holdings (measured by fair value). The distribution of the portfolio among industry sectors is shown in the tablebelow.
Common Stock Portfolio Industry Sector Distribution Percent of common stock portfolio At December 31, 2016 At December 31, 2015 Cincinnati Financial S&P 500 Industry Weightings Cincinnati Financial S&P 500 Industry Weightings Sector: Information technology 17.6 % 20.8 % 18.4 % 20.7 % Financial 15.6 14.8 15.4 16.5 Industrials 14.9 10.3 14.0 10.0 Healthcare 12.6 13.6 12.2 15.1 Consumer discretionary 10.4 12.0 10.6 12.9 Consumer staples 10.3 9.4 11.0 10.1 Energy 8.5 7.5 7.7 6.5 Materials 5.8 2.8 4.9 2.8 Utilities 2.2 3.2 3.8 3.0 Telecomm services 2.1 2.7 2.0 2.4 Real estate  2.9   Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % We evaluate nonredeemable preferred stocks in a manner similar to our evaluation of fixed-maturity investments, seekingattractive relative yields. We generally focus on investment-grade nonredeemable preferred stocks issued by companies with strong histories of paying common dividends, providing us with another layer of protection. Consideration is also given to nonredeemable preferred stocks that offer a dividend received deduction for income tax purposes. We did not purchase any nonredeemable preferred stocks and sold $7 million in this portfolio during 2016. During2015, we purchased $65 million and sold $20 million.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 25 Other We report as Other the noninvestment operations of the parent company and its noninsurer subsidiary CFCInvestment Company. Atyear-end 2016, this subsidiary had $51million in receivables related to its commercial leasing and financing services, compared with $62million in receivables at year-end2015.
Beginningin2015, we also reported results of our Cincinnati Re reinsurance assumed operations. Cincinnati Re has contracts, also referred to as treaties, with other insurance or reinsurance companies to assume a portion of their insured risk in exchange for a portion of premiums from insurance policies covering those risks. The treaties and their exposure to losses are diverse in nature, including various lines of business and geographies for the reinsured risks. Some of our treaties reflect a type of contract commonly referred to as participating or proportional, typically sharing premiums and losses between the reinsured entity and us, as reinsurer, on a pro rata basis. Some are a contract type commonly referred to as excess of loss, where we indemnify the reinsured entity only for losses exceeding a predetermined amount.
Net written premiums for Cincinnati Re totaled $71million in 2016, and nearly half was for property exposures that include risk of loss from natural catastrophes. The remainder was primarily for casualty exposures from various liability risks. Less than 10 percent was a combination of what we consider to be more specialized coverages that include transactional liability and credit risk transfer related to residential mortgages. At year-end 2016, Cincinnati Re increased other property casualty catastrophe probable maximum lossestimates disclosed in Item 7, Liquidity and Capital Resources, 2017 Reinsurance Ceded Programs, by the following amounts: $45 million for a once-in-a-100-year event and $44 million for a once-in-a-250-year event. Those effects represent a single hurricane event and are net of incometaxes, based on probable maximum loss estimates from Applied Insurance Research's Touchstone version 4.0 catastrophe model.
Regulation The business of insurance is primarily regulated by state law. All of our insurance company subsidiaries are domiciled in the state of Ohio except The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company, which is domiciled in Delaware. Each insurance subsidiary is primarily governed by the insurance laws and regulations in its respective state of domicile. We also are subject to regulatory authorities of all states in which we write insurance. Thestate laws and regulations that have the most significant effect on our insurance operations and financial reporting are discussed below.
Insurance Holding Company Regulation  We are regulated as an insurance holding company system in therespective states of domicile of our primary standard market property casualty company subsidiary and itssurplus lines and life insurance subsidiaries. These regulations require that we annually furnish financial andother information about the operations of the individual companies within the holding company system. Information about the risks posed by any noninsurance company subsidiaries must also be disclosed. Alltransactions within a holding company system affecting insurers must be fair and equitable. Notice to the state insurance commissioner is required prior to the consummation of transactions affecting the ownership or control of an insurer and prior to certain material transactions between an insurer and any person or entity in its holding company group. Inaddition, some of those transactions cannot be consummated without the commissioners priorapproval.
Subsidiary Dividends  The Cincinnati Insurance Company is fully owned by Cincinnati Financial Corporation. The dividend-paying capacity of The Cincinnati Insurance Company and its fully owned subsidiaries is regulatedby the laws of the applicable state of domicile. Under these laws, our insurance subsidiaries must provide a 10-day advance informational notice to the insurance commissioner for the domiciliary state prior to payment of any dividend or distribution to its shareholders. Generally, the most our insurance subsidiary can pay without prior regulatory approval is the greater of 10 percent of statutory capital and surplus or 100 percent of statutory net income for the prior calendaryear.
The insurance company subsidiaries must give 30 days of notice to, and obtain prior approval from, the state insurance commissioner before the payment of an extraordinary dividend as defined by the statesinsurance code. You can find information about the dividends paid by our insurance subsidiary in 2016 in Item8, Note 9 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Insurance Operations  All of our insurance subsidiaries are subject to licensing and supervision by departments of insurance in the states in which they do business. The nature and extent of such regulations vary, but generally are rooted in statutes that delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative powers to state insurance departments. Such regulations, supervision and administration of the insurance subsidiaries include: the Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 26 standards of solvency that must be met and maintained; the licensing of insurers and their agents and brokers; the nature and limitations on investments; deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders; regulation of standard market policy forms and premium rates; policy cancellations and nonrenewals; test audit programs; periodic examination of the affairs of insurance companies; annual and other reports required to be filed on the financial condition of insurers or for other purposes; requirements regarding reserves for unearned premiums, losses and other matters; the nature of and limitations on dividends to policyholders and shareholders; the nature and extent of required participation in insurance guaranty funds; the involuntary assumption of hard-to-place or high-risk insurance business, primarily workers compensation insurance; and the collection, remittance and reporting of certain taxes and fees. Our primary insurance regulators have adopted the Model Audit Rule for annual statutory financial reporting. This regulation closely mirrors the Sarbanes-Oxley Act on matters such as auditor independence, corporate governance and internal controls over financial reporting. The regulation permits the audit committee of Cincinnati Financial Corporations board of directors to also serve as the audit committee of each of our insurance subsidiaries for purposes of this regulation.
Insurance Guaranty Associations  For certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants, states assess each member insurer in an amount relative to the insurers proportionate share of business written by all member insurers in the state. While the amount of such assessments has not been material in recent years, we cannot predict the amount and timing of any future assessments or refunds on our insurance subsidiaries under theselaws.
Shared Market and Joint Underwriting Plans  Assigned risk plans, reinsurance facilities and joint underwriting associations are mechanisms that generally provide applicants with various basic insurance coverages when they are not available in voluntary markets. States can require participation based upon the amount of an insurance companys voluntary market share, and underwriting results related to these pools could be adverse to ourcompany.
Statutory Accounting  For public reporting, insurance companies prepare financial statements in accordance with GAAP. However, certain data also must be calculated according to statutory accounting rules as defined in the NAICs Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual. While not a substitute for any GAAP measure of performance, statutory data frequently is used by industry analystsand other recognized reporting sources to facilitate comparisons of the performance of insurance companies.
Insurance Reserves  State insurance laws require that property casualty and life insurers annually analyze the adequacy of reserves. Our appointed actuaries must submit an opinion that reserves are adequate for policy claims-paying obligations and related expenses.
Investment Regulation  Insurance company investments must comply with laws and regulations pertaining to the type, quality and concentration of investments. Such laws and regulations permit investments in federal, state and municipal obligations, corporate bonds, preferred and common equity securities, mortgage loans, real estate and certain other investments, subject to specified limits and other qualifications. At December 31, 2016, the company believed it was in compliance with these laws and regulations in all material respects.
Risk-Based Capital Requirements  The NAICs risk-based capital (RBC)requirements for property casualty and life insurers serve as an early warning tool for the NAIC and state regulators to identify companies that may be undercapitalized and may merit further regulatory action. The NAIC has a standard formula for annually assessing RBC. The formula for calculating RBC for property casualty companies takes into account asset and credit risks but places more emphasis on underwriting factors for reserving and pricing. The formula for calculating RBC for life insurance companies takes into account factors relating to insurance, business, asset and interest-rate risks.
Although the federal government and its regulatory agencies generally do not directly regulate the business of insurance, federal legislation and administrative rules adopted can affect our business. Privacy laws, such as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act and the Health Insurance Portability and Accounting Act (HIPAA) are the federal laws that most affect our day-to-day operations. These apply to us because we gather and use personal nonpublic information to underwrite insurance and process claims. We also are subject to other federal laws, such as the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act (TRIA), anti-money laundering statute (AML), the Nonadmitted and Reinsurance Reform Act (NRRA), and the rules and regulations of the Office of Foreign Assets Control(OFAC).
Title V of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (Dodd-Frank) created the Federal Insurance Office to monitor the insurance industry and gather information to identify issues or gaps in the regulation of insurers that could contribute to a systemic crisis in the insurance industry that affects the United States financial system and to recommend to the Financial Stability Oversight Council that it designate an insurer Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 27 as a systemically significant entity requiring additional supervision by the Federal Reserve Board. We do not expect Dodd-Frank to result in federal oversight of our operations as a systemically significant entity.
We do not expect to have any material effects on our expenditures, earnings or competitive position as aresultofcompliance with any federal, state or local provisions enacted or adopted relating to the protection of theenvironment. We currently do not have any material estimated capital expenditures for environmental controlfacilities.
Enterprise Risk Management We manage enterprise risk through formal risk management programs overseen by our chief risk officer, an executive officer of the company. Our ERM framework includes an enterprise risk management committee, which is responsible for overseeing risk activities and is comprised of senior executive-level risk owners from across the enterprise.The risk committee's activities are supported bya team of representatives frombusiness areas that focus on identifying, evaluating and developing risk plans for emerging risks. A comprehensive report is provided quarterly to our chairman, our president and chief executive officer, our board of directors and our senior executive team, as appropriate,on the status of risk metrics relative to identified tolerances and limits, risk assessments and risk plans. Our use of operational audits, strategic plans and departmental business plans, as well as our culture of open communications and our fundamental respect for our Code of Conduct, continue to help us manage risks on an ongoing basis.
Our risk management programs include a formalized risk appetite element and a risk identification and quantification process. The overall enterprise objective is to appropriately balance risk and reward to achieve an appropriate return on risk capital.The companys key risks are discussed in Item 1A, Risk Factors, including risks related to natural catastrophes, investments and operations.
We continue to study emerging risks, including climate-change risk and its potential financial effects on our results of operation and on those we insure. These effects include deterioration in the credit quality of our municipal or corporate bond portfolios and increased losses without sufficient corresponding increases in premiums. As with any risk, we seek to identify the extent of the risk exposure and possible actions to mitigate potential negative effects of risk at an enterpriselevel.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 28 I TEM 1 A .Risk Factors Our business involves various risks and uncertainties that may affect achievement of our business objectives. Manyof the risks could have ramifications across our organization. For example, while risks related to setting insurance rates and establishing and adjusting loss reserves are insurance activities, errors in these areas could have an impact on our investment activities, growth and overall results.
The following discussion should be viewed as a starting point for understanding the significant risks we face. It is not a definitive summary of their potential impacts or of our strategies to manage and control the risks. Please see Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for a discussion of those strategies.
If any risks or uncertainties discussed here develop into actual events, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In that case, the market price of our common stock could decline materially. The failure of our risk management strategies could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and/or results of operations.
Readers should carefully consider this information together with the other information we have provided in this report and in other reports and materials we file periodically with the Securities and Exchange Commission as well as news releases and other information we disseminate publicly.
We rely primarily on independent insurance agents to distribute our products.
We market our main products, insurance policies for businesses and individuals, through independent, nonexclusive insurance agents. These agents are not obligated to promote our products and can and do sell our competitors products. We must offer insurance products that meet the needs of these agents and their clients. Weneed to maintain good relationships with the agents who market our products. If we do not, these agents may market our competitors products instead of ours, which may lead to us having a less desirable mix of business and could affect our results of operations.
In addition to insurance policies for businesses and individuals, a relatively small part of our business is reinsuring policies written by other insurance companies. Reinsurance assumed is marketed through reinsurance intermediaries and is generally not offered by the typical independent agents who market our insurance policies.
Certain events or conditions could diminish our agents desire to produce business for us and the competitive advantage that our independent agents enjoy, including:  Downgrade of the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries. We believe our strong insurer financial strength ratings, in particular, the A+ (Superior) ratings from A.M. Best for our standard market property casualty insurance group and each subsidiary in that group, are an important competitive advantage. See Item1, OurBusiness and Our Strategy, Financial Strength, for additional discussion of our financial strength ratings.
Concerns that doing business with us is difficult or not profitable, perceptions that our level of service is no longer a distinguishing characteristic in the marketplace, perceptions that our products do not meet the needs of our agents clients or perceptions that our business practices are not compatible with agents business models.
Mergers and acquisitions could result in a concentration of a significant amount of premium in one agency.
Delays in the development, implementation, performance and benefits of technology systems and enhancements or independent agent perceptions that our technology solutions do not match theirneeds.
A reduction in the number of independent agencies marketing our products, the failure of agencies to successfully market our products or pay amounts due to us, changes in the strategy or operations of agencies or the choice of agencies to reduce their writings of our products could affect our results of operations if we were unable to replace them with agencies that produce adequate and profitable premiums.
Further, policyholders may choose a competitors product rather than our own because of real or perceived differences in price, terms and conditions, coverage or service. If the quality of the independent agencies with which we do business were to decline, that also might cause policyholders to purchase their insurance through different agencies or channels. Consumers, especially in the personal insurance industry segment, may increasingly choose to purchase insurance from distribution channels other than independent insurance agents, such as Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 29 directmarketers. Increased advertising by insurers, especially direct marketers, could cause consumers to shift their buying habits, bypassing independent agents altogether.
Our credit ratings or financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries could be downgraded.
A downgrade in one or more of our companys credit or debt ratings could adversely impact our borrowingcosts or limit our access to capital. Financial strength ratings reflect a rating agencys opinion of our insurance subsidiaries financial strength, operating performance, strategic position and ability to meet obligations to policyholders. Ourratings are subject to periodic review and there is no assurance that our ratings will not be changed. Ratingsagencies could change or expand their requirements or could find that our insurance subsidiaries no longer meet the criteria established for current ratings. If our property casualty insurer financial strength ratings were to be downgraded, our agents might find it more difficult to market ourproducts or might choose to emphasize the products of other carriers. See Item 7, Liquidity and CapitalResources, Additional Sources of Liquidity, for additional discussion of ratings for our long-term debt.
We could experience an unusually high level of losses due to catastrophic, terrorism or pandemic events or risk concentrations.
In the normal course of our business, both in our insurance and reinsurance operations, we provide coverage against perils for which estimates of losses are highly uncertain, in particular catastrophic and terrorism events. Catastrophes can be man-made or caused by natural perils. Man-made catastrophes to which we may be exposedinclude, but are not limited to, industrial accidents, terrorist attacks, social unrest and riot. Natural peril catastrophe events to which we may be exposed include, but are not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, windstorms,earthquakes, landslides, hailstorms, flooding, severe winter weather and wildfires. Due to the nature of these events, we are unable to predict precisely the frequency or potential cost of catastrophe occurrences. Variousscientists and other experts believe that changing climate conditions have added to the unpredictability, frequency and severity of such natural disasters in certain parts of the world and have created additional uncertainty as to future trends and exposures. We cannot predict the impact that changing climate conditions may have on our results of operations nor can we predict how any legal, regulatory or social responses to concerns about climate change may impact our business. Additionally, man-made events, such as hydraulic fracturing, could cause damage from earth movement or create environmental and/or health hazards.
The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured and reinsured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Our ability to appropriately manage catastrophe risk depends partially on catastrophe models, which may be affected by inaccurate or incompletedata, the uncertainty of the frequency and severity of future events and the uncertain impact of climate change. Additionally, these models are recalibrated and changed over time, with more data availability and changing opinions regarding the effect of current or emerging loss patterns and conditions. Please see Item 7, Liquidity and CapitalResources, 2017Reinsurance Programs, for a discussion of modeled losses considered in evaluating our risk mitigation strategy, which includes our ceded reinsurance program.
The geographic regions in which we market insurance and reinsurance are exposed to numerous natural catastrophes, suchas:  Hurricanes in the gulf, eastern, southeastern and northeastern coastal regions.
Earthquakes in many regions, most particularly in the New Madrid fault zone, which lies within the central Mississippi valley, extending from northeast Arkansas through southeast Missouri, western Tennessee and western Kentucky to southern Illinois, southern Indiana and parts of Ohio.
Tornado, wind and hail in the Midwest, South, Southeast, Southwest and the mid-Atlantic.
Wildfires.
On a worldwide basis, in the event of a severe catastrophic event or terrorist attack we may be exposed to material losses through our reinsurance assumed operations.
The occurrence of terrorist attacks in the geographic areas we serve could result in substantially higher claims under our insurance policies than we have anticipated. While our insurance policies provide terrorism risk in all areas we serve, wehave identified our major terrorism exposure geographically as general commercial risks in the Tier 1 cities of metropolitan Chicago, Dallas and New York areas, and to a much lesser degree, Houston, LosAngeles and Washington D.C. We have a greater amount of business in less hazardous Tier 2 cities such as Atlanta, Cincinnati, Cleveland, Denver, Minneapolis, Phoenix-Mesa, Pittsburgh, St. Louis and Tampa-St.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 30 Petersburg. Wehave exposure to small co-op utilities, water utilities, wholesale fuel distributors, small shopping malls and small colleges throughout our 41 active states and, because of the number of associates located there, our Fairfield, Ohio, headquarters. Additionally, our life insurance subsidiary could be adversely affected in the event of a terrorist event or an epidemic such as the avian or swine flu, particularly if the epidemic were to affect a broad range of the population beyond just the very young or the very old. Our associate health plan is self-funded and could similarly be affected.
Our results of operations would be adversely affected if the level of losses we experience over a period of time were to exceed our actuarially determined expectations. In addition, our financial condition may be adversely affected if we were required to sell securities prior to maturity or at unfavorable prices to pay an unusually high level of loss and loss expenses. Securities pricing might be even less favorable if a number of insurance or other companies and other investors needed to sell securities during a short period of time because of unusually high losses from catastrophic events.
Our geographic concentration ties our performance to business, economic, environmental and regulatory conditions in certain states. We market our standard market property casualty insurance products in 41states, but our business is concentrated in the Midwest and Southeast. We also have exposure in states where we do not actively market insurance when clients of our independent agencies have businesses or properties in multiple states.
The Cincinnati Insurance Company is expanding in the area of reinsurance assumed and has staffed this operation with seasoned underwriting and analytical talent and strive to assume risks that we understand well, both quantitatively and qualitatively. Business written includes treaties that provide coverage for property catastrophe and terrorism events on a worldwide basis. At year-end 2016, the largest loss exposure to us for our Cincinnati Re reinsurance assumed operation is from natural catastrophe events. That exposure includes probable maximum lossestimates of the following amounts: $45 million for a once-in-a-100-year event and $44 million for a once-in-a-250-year event. Those effects represent a single hurricane event and are net of incometaxes. If there is a high frequency of large property catastrophe or terrorism events, or a single extreme event, during the coverage period of these treaties, our financial position and results of operations could be materially affected.
Additionally, the companies we invest in might be severely affected by a severe catastrophic event or terrorist attack, which could affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our reinsurers might experience significant losses, potentially jeopardizing their ability to pay losses we cede to them. It could also reduce the availability of reinsurance. If we cannot obtain adequate coverage at a reasonable cost, it could constrain where we can write business or reduce the amount of business we can write in certain areas. We also may be exposed to state guarantyfund assessments if other carriers in a state cannot meet their obligations to policyholders. Acatastrophe or epidemic event also could affect our operations by damaging our headquarters facility, injuring associates and visitors at our Fairfield, Ohio, headquarters or disrupting our associates ability to perform their assignedtasks.
Our ability to achieve our performance objectives could be affected by changes in the financial, credit and capital markets or the general economy.
We invest premiums received from policyholders and other available cash to generate investment income and capital appreciation, while also maintaining sufficient liquidity to pay covered claims and operating expenses, service our debt obligations and pay dividends. The value of our invested assets is an important component of shareholders equity, also known as book value. Changes in the valuation of invested assets can significantly affect changes in book value per share, a key performance objective as discussed in Item 7, Executive Summary of Managements Discussion and Analysis.
For fixed-maturity investments such as bonds, which represented 65.4 percent of the fair valueof our investment portfolio at the end of 2016, the inverse relationship between interest rates and bond prices leads to falling bond values during periods of increasing interest rates. A significant increase in the general level of interest rates could have an adverse effect on our shareholders equity.
Investment income is an important component of our revenues and net income. The ability to increase investment income and generate longer-term growth in book value is affected by factors beyond our control, such as: inflation, economic growth, interest rates, world political conditions, changes in laws and regulations, terrorism attacks or threats, adverse events affecting other companies in our industry or the industries in which we invest, market events leading to credit constriction, and other widespread unpredictable events. These events may adversely Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 31 affect the economy generally and could cause our investment income or the value of securities we own to decrease. A significant decline in our investment income could have an adverse effect on our net income, and thereby on our shareholders equity and our statutory capital and surplus. For example, a significant increase in the general level of interest rates could lead to falling bond values. For a more detailed discussion of risks associated with our investments, please refer to Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.
We have issued life contracts with guaranteed minimum returns, referred to as bank-owned life insurance contracts(BOLIs). BOLI investment assets must meet certain criteria established by the regulatory authorities in the jurisdiction for which the group contract holder is subject. Therefore, sales of investments may be mandated to maintain compliance with these regulations, possibly requiring gains or losses to be recorded. We could experience losses if the assets in the accounts were less than liabilities at the time of maturity or termination.
Our investment performance also could suffer because of the types of investments, industry groups and/or individual securities in which we choose to invest. Market value changes related to these choices could cause a material change in our financial condition or results of operations.
At year-end 2016, common stock holdings made up 33.2percent of our investment portfolio. Adverse news or events affecting the global or U.S. economy or the equity markets could affect our net income, book value and overall results, as well as our ability to pay our common stock dividend. See Item 7, Investments Results, and Item7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, for adiscussion of our investment activities.
Deterioration in the banking sector or in banks with which we have relationships could affect our results of operations. Our ability to maintain or obtain short-term lines of credit could be affected if the banks from which we obtain these lines are acquired, fail or are otherwise negatively affected. We may lose premium revenue if a bank that owns appointed agencies were to change its strategies. We could experience increased losses in our director and officer liability line of business if claims were made against insured financialinstitutions.
A deterioration of credit and market conditions could also impair our ability to access credit markets and could affect existing or future lending arrangements.
Our overall results could be affected if a significant portion of our commercial lines policyholders, including those purchasing surety bonds, are adversely affected by marked or prolonged economic downturns and events such as a downturn in construction and related sectors, tightening credit markets and higher fuel costs. Such events could make it more difficult for policyholders to finance new projects, complete projects or expand their businesses, leading to lower premiums from reduced payrolls and sales and lower purchases of equipment and vehicles. Theseevents could also cause claims, including surety claims, to increase due to a policyholders inability to secure necessary financing to complete projects or to collect on underlying lines of credit in the claims process. Sucheconomic downturns and events could have a greater impact in the construction sector where we have a concentration of risks and in geographic areas that are hardest hit by economic downturns.
Deteriorating economic conditions could also increase the degree of credit risk associated with amounts due from independent agents who collect premiums for payment to us and could hamper our ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers.
Our ability to properly underwrite and price risks and increased competition could adversely affect ourresults.
Our financial condition, cash flow and results of operations depend on our ability to underwrite and set rates accurately for a full spectrum of risks. We establish our pricing based on assumptions about the level of losses that may occur within classes of business, geographic regions and other criteria.
To properly price our products, we must collect, properly analyze and use data to make decisions and take appropriate action; the data must be sufficient, reliable and accessible; we need to develop appropriate rating methodologies and formulae; and we may need to identify and respond to trends quickly. We may overestimate or underestimate loss cost trends or these trends may unexpectedly change, leading to losing business by pricing risks above our competitors or charging rates too low to maintain profitability. Inflation trends, especially outside of historical norms, may make itmore difficult to determine adequate pricing. If rates are not accurate, we may not generate enough premiums to offset losses and expenses, or we may not be competitive in the marketplace.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 32 Our ability to set appropriate rates could be hampered if states where we write business refuse to allow rate increases that we believe are necessary to cover the risks insured. A state could also hamper our ability to set appropriate rates if it no longer allowed us to use factors that we believe are predictive of loss, such as credit-based factors. Multiple states require us to purchase reinsurance from a mandatory reinsurance fund. Such reinsurance funds can create a credit risk for insurers if not adequately funded by the state and, in some cases, the existence of a reinsurance fund could affect the prices charged for our policies. The effect of these and similar arrangements could reduce our profitability in any given period or limit our ability to grow our business.
The insurance industry is cyclical and intensely competitive. From time to time, the insurance industry goes through prolonged periods of intense competition during which it is more difficult to attract new business, retainexisting business and maintain profitability. Competition in our insurance business is based on many factors,including:  Competitiveness of premiums charged  Relationships among carriers, agents, brokers and policyholders  Underwriting and pricing methodologies that allow insurers to identify and flexibly price risks  Compensation provided to agents  Underwriting discipline  Terms and conditions of insurance coverage  Speed with which products are brought to market  Product and marketing innovations, including advertising  Technological competence and innovation  Ability to control expenses  Adequacy of financial strength ratings by independent ratings agencies such as A.M. Best  Quality of services and tools provided to agents and policyholders  Claims satisfaction and reputation We compete with major U.S., Bermuda, European, and other international insurers and reinsurers and with underwriting syndicates, some of which have greater financial, marketing and management resources than we do. Recent industry consolidation, including business combinations among insurance and other financial services companies, has resulted in larger competitors with even greater financial resources. We also compete with new companies that continue to enter the insurance and reinsurance markets. In addition, capital market participants have created alternative products that are intended to compete with reinsurance products that we sell in our reinsurance assumed operations. Increased competition could result in fewer submissions, lower premium rates, and less favorable policy terms and conditions, which could reduce our underwriting margins and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.
If our pricing was incorrect or we were unable to compete effectively because of one or more of these factors, our premium writings could decline and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adverselyaffected. Large competitors could intentionally disrupt the market by targeting certain lines or underpricing the market.
Please see the discussion of our Commercial Lines, Personal Lines, Excess and Surplus Lines and Life Insurance Segments in Item 1, Our Segments, for a discussion of our competitive position in the insurancemarketplace.
Our pricing and capital models could be flawed.
We use various predictive pricing models, stochastic models and/or forecasting techniques to help us understand our business, analyze risk and estimate future trends. The output of these models is used to assist us in making underwriting, pricing, reinsurance, reserving and capital decisions and helps us set our strategic direction. Thesemodels contain numerous assumptions, including the assumption that the data used is sufficient and accurate. They are also subject to uncertainties and limitations inherent in any statistical analysis. Actual results may be materially different from modeled output, resulting inpricing our products incorrectly, overestimating or underestimating reserves, or inaccurately forecasting theimpact of modeled events on our results. This could materially adversely impact the results of ouroperations.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 33 Our loss reserves, our largest liability, are based on estimates and could be inadequate to cover our actuallosses.
Our consolidated financial statements are prepared using GAAP. These principles require us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. For a discussion of the significant accounting policies we use to prepare our financial statements, the material implications of uncertainties associated with the methods, assumptions and estimates underlying our critical accounting policies and the process used to determine our loss reserves, please refer to Item8, Note1of the Consolidated Financial Statements, and Item7, Critical Accounting Estimates, Property Casualty Insurance Loss and Loss Expense Reserves and Life Insurance Policy Reserves.
Our most critical accounting estimate is loss reserves. Loss reserves are the amounts we expect to pay for covered claims and expenses we incur to settle those claims. The loss reserves we establish in our financial statements represent an estimate of amounts needed to pay and administer claims arising from insured events that have already occurred, including events that have not yet been reported to us. Lossreserves are estimates and are inherently uncertain; they do not and cannot represent an exact measure of liability. Inflationary scenarios, especially scenarios outside of historical norms or regulatory changes that affect the assumptions underlying our critical accounting estimates, may make itmore difficult to estimate loss reserves. Accordingly, our loss reserves for past periods could prove to be inadequate to cover our actual losses and related expenses. Anychanges in these estimates are reflected in our results of operations during the period in which the changes are made. An increase inour loss reserves would decrease earnings, while a decrease in our loss reserves would increaseearnings.
Unforeseen losses, the type and magnitude of which we cannot predict, may emerge. Theseadditional losses could arise from changes in the legal environment, laws and regulations, climate change, catastrophic events, increases in loss severity or frequency, environmental claims, mass torts or other causes. Such future losses could be substantial. Inflationary scenarios may cause the cost of claims, especially medical claims, to rise, impacting reserve adequacy and our results of operations.
In addition to the risks stated above, reinsurance assumed reserves are subject to uncertainty because a reinsurer relies on the original underwriting decisions made by ceding companies. As a result, we are subject to the risk that our ceding companies may not have adequately evaluated the risks reinsured by us and the premiums ceded may not adequately compensate us for the risks we assume. In addition, there is generally a longer lapse of time from the occurrence of the event to the reporting of the loss or benefit to the reinsurer and ultimate resolution or settlement of the loss.
Our ability to obtain or collect on our reinsurance protection could affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
We buy property casualty and life reinsurance coverage to mitigate the liquidity risk and earnings volatility risk of an unexpected rise in claims severity or frequency from catastrophic events or a single large loss. The availability, amount and cost of reinsurance depend on market conditions and may vary significantly. If we were unable to obtain reinsurance on acceptable terms and in appropriate amounts, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected.
In addition, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our reinsurers. Although we purchase reinsurance to manage our risks and exposures to losses, this reinsurance does not discharge our direct obligations under the policies we write. We would remain liable to our policyholders even if we were unable to recover what we believe we are entitled to receive under our reinsurance contracts. Reinsurers might refuse or fail to pay losses that we cede to them, or they might delay payment. For long-tail claims, the creditworthiness of our reinsurers may change before we can recover amounts to which we are entitled. A reinsurers insolvency, inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of its reinsurance agreement with our insurancesubsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
Please see Item 7, Liquidity and Capital Resources, 2017 Reinsurance Ceded Programs, for a discussion of selected reinsurancetransactions.
Our business depends on the uninterrupted operation of our facilities, systems and businessfunctions.
Our business depends on our associates ability to perform necessary business functions, such as processingnew and renewal policies and handling claims. We increasingly rely on technology and systems to accomplish these business functions in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion. Our inability to access our headquarters facilities or a Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 34 failure of technology, telecommunications or other systems or the loss or failure of services provided by key vendors, could significantly impair our ability to perform such functions on a timely basis or affect the accuracy of transactions. If sustained or repeated, such a business interruption or system failure could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process new and renewal business, serve our agents and policyholders, pay claims in a timely manner, collect receivables or perform other necessary business functions. If our disaster recovery and business continuity plans did not sufficiently consider, address or reverse the circumstances of an interruption or failure, this could result in a materially adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Thisrisk is exacerbated because approximately 67 percent of our associates work at our Fairfield,Ohio, headquarters.
Our ability to successfully execute business functions also depends on hiring and retaining qualified associates. Competition for high-quality executives and other key associates occurs within the insurance industry and from other industries. We also must effectively develop and manage associates, including providing training and resources. Such tools and information can allow them to effectively perform critical business functions and adapttochanging business needs. If we were unable to attract and retain certain associates, or if we fail to provideadequate training or resources, we could limit the success of executing our strategic plans and vital business functions.
The effects of changes in industry practices, laws and regulations on our business areuncertain.
As industry practices and legal, judicial, legislative, regulatory, political, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to insurance pricing, claims and coverage may emerge. Theseissues may adversely affect our business by impeding our ability to obtain adequate rates for covered risks or otherwise extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent, by increasing the number or size of claims, by varying assumptions underlying our critical accounting estimates or by increasing duties owed to policyholders beyond contractual obligations. In some instances, unforeseeable emerging and latent claim and coverage issues may not become apparent until sometime after we have issued the insurance policies that could be affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance contracts may not be known for many years after a policy is issued and our pricing and reserve estimates may not accurately reflect its effect.
We are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative organizations, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and the SEC. Future changes required to be adopted could change the current accounting treatment that we apply and could result in material adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition.
Our investment income benefits from tax rate preferences for municipal bond interest and dividend incomefrom equity securities. Market valuations for these securities also benefit from the tax-preference aspect of current tax laws, affecting the value of our investment portfolio and also shareholders equity. Future changes in tax laws could result in material adverse effects on our results of operations and financialcondition.
The NAIC, state insurance regulators and statelegislators continually re-examine existing laws and regulations governing insurance companies and insurance holding companies, specifically focusing on modifications to statutory accounting principles, interpretations of existing laws, regulations relating to product forms and pricing methodologies and the development of new laws and regulations that affect a variety of financial and nonfinancial components ofour business. Any proposed or future legislation, regulation or NAIC initiatives, if adopted, may be more restrictive on our ability to conduct business than current regulatory requirements or may result in highercosts. The loss or significant restriction on the use of a particular variable, such as credit, in pricing and underwriting our products could lead to future unprofitability and increased costs.
Federal laws and regulations and the influence of international laws and regulations, including those that may be enacted in the wake of the financial and credit crises, may have adverse effects on our business, potentially including a change from a state-based system of regulation to a system of federal regulation, the repeal of the McCarran Ferguson Act, and/or measures under the Dodd-Frank Act that establish the Federal Insurance Office and provide for a determination that a nonbank financial company presents systemic risk and therefore should be subject to heightened supervision by the Federal Reserve Board. Itis not known how this federal office will coordinate and interact with the NAIC and state insurance regulators. Adoption or implementation of any of these measures may restrict our ability to conduct our insurance business, govern our corporate affairs or increase our cost of doing business. Implementation of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) may affect the ability of the company to grow profitably.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 35 The effects of such changes could adversely affect our results of operations. Please see Item 7, Critical Accounting Estimates, Property Casualty Insurance Loss and Loss Expense Reserves and Life Insurance Policy Reserves, for a discussion of our reserving practices.
Managing technology initiatives and meeting data security requirements are significantchallenges.
While technology can streamline many business processes and ultimately reduce the costs of operations, technology initiatives present short-term cost and also have implementation and operational risks. In addition, wemay have inaccurate expense projections, implementation schedules or expectations regarding the effectiveness and user acceptance of the end product. These issues could escalate over time. If we were unable to find and retain associates with key technical knowledge, our ability to develop and deploy key technology solutions could behampered.
We necessarily collect, use and hold data concerning individuals and businesses with whom we have a relationship. Threats to data security, including unauthorized access and cyberattacks, rapidly emerge and change, exposing us to additional costs for protection or remediation and competingtime constraints to secure our data in accordance with customer expectations and statutory and regulatory requirements.
While we take commercially reasonable measures to keep our systems and data secure, it is difficult or impossible to defend against every risk being posed by changing technologies as well as criminals intent on committing cybercrime. Increasing sophistication of cyber criminals and terrorists make keeping up with new threats difficult and could result in a breach. Patching and other measures to protect existing systems and servers could be inadequate, especially on systems that are being retired. Controls employed by our U.S., off-shore and cloud vendors could prove inadequate. We could also experience a breach by intentional or negligent conduct on the part of associates or other internal sources. Our systems and those of our third-party vendors may become vulnerable to damage or disruption due to circumstances beyond our or their control, such as from catastrophic events, power anomalies or outages, natural disasters, network failures, and viruses and malware.
A breach of our security or the security of a vendor that results in unauthorized access to our data could expose us to a disruption or challenges relating to our daily operations as well as to data loss, litigation, damages, fines and penalties, significant increases in compliance costs and reputational damage.
Our status as an insurance holding company with no direct operations could affect our ability to pay dividends in the future.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation is a holding company that transacts substantially all of its business throughits subsidiaries. Our primary assets are the stock in our operating subsidiaries and our investments.Consequently, ourcash flow to pay cash dividends and interest on our long-term debt depends on dividends we receive from ouroperating subsidiaries and income earned on investments held at the parent-company level.
Dividends received from our insurance subsidiary are restricted by the insurance laws of Ohio, itsdomiciliary state. These laws establish minimum solvency and liquidity thresholds and limits. In 2017, the maximum dividend that may be paid without prior regulatory approval is limited to the greater of 10percent of statutory capital and surplus or 100percent of statutory net income for the prior calendar year, up to the amount of statutory unassigned capital and surplus as of the end of the prior calendar year. Dividends exceeding these limitations may be paid only with prior approval of the Ohio Department of Insurance. Wemight not be able to receive dividends from our insurance subsidiary, or we might not receive dividends in the amounts necessary to meet our debt obligations or to pay dividends on our common stock without liquidating securities. This could affect our financial position.
Please see Item 1, Regulation, and Item 8, Note 9 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, for a discussion of insurance holding company dividend regulations.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 36 I TEM 1 B .Unresolved Staff Comments None I TEM 2.Properties Cincinnati Financial Corporation owns our headquarters building located on 100 acres of land in Fairfield, Ohio. This building has 1,508,200 square feet of total space. The property, including land is recorded in our financial statements at $130 million at December 31, 2016, and is classified as land, building and equipment, net, for company use. John J. & Thomas R. Schiff & Co. Inc., a related party, occupies 6,750 square feet (less than 1percent). This property is used for all operations reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation owns Gilmore Pointe, located on the northwest corner of our headquarters property. This four-story building contains approximately 103,000 square feet of usable space. The property is recorded in the financial statements at $6 million at December 31, 2016, and is classified as investment property in Other Invested Assets, net. At December 31, 2016, unaffiliated tenants occupied 77 percent, Cincinnati Financial affiliates occupy 12 percent, and the remaining 11 percent was in a lease negotiation with a current unaffiliated tenant.
The Cincinnati Insurance Company owns the CFC Winton Center used for multiple operations with approximately 48,000 square feet of total space, located approximately six miles from our headquarters. The property, including land, is recorded in our financial statements at $9 million at December 31, 2016, and is classified as land, building and equipment, net, for company use.
I TEM 3.Legal Proceedings Neither the company nor any of our subsidiaries is involved in any material litigation other than ordinary, routine litigation incidental to the nature of its business.
I TEM 4.Mine Safety Disclosures This item is not applicable to the company.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 37 Part II I TEM 5.Market for the Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Cincinnati Financial Corporation had approximately 112,000 shareholders of record as of December31,2016. Whileapproximately 13,000 shareholders are registered, the majority of shareholders are beneficial owners whose shares are held in street name by brokers and institutional accounts. We believe many of our independent agent representatives and most of the 4,754 associates of our subsidiaries own the companys common stock.
Our common shares are traded under the symbol CINF on Nasdaq.
(Source: Nasdaq Global Select Market) 2016 2015 Quarter: 1 st 2 nd 3 rd 4 th 1 st 2 nd 3 rd 4 th High $ 65.99 $ 74.89 $ 78.09 $ 79.60 $ 54.92 $ 54.25 $ 56.94 $ 61.59 Low 53.64 63.87 73.88 68.11 50.12 49.74 49.72 52.63 Period-end close 65.36 74.89 75.42 75.75 53.28 50.18 53.80 59.17 Cash dividends declared 0.48 0.48 0.48 0.48 0.46 0.46 0.46 0.92 We discuss the factors that affect our ability to pay cash dividends and repurchase shares in Item 7, Liquidity and Capital Resources. Regulatory restrictions on dividends our insurance subsidiary can pay to the parent company are discussed in Item8, Note9 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The following summarizes securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans as of December31,2016: Plan category Number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights at December 31, 2016 Weighted-average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and rights Number of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plan (excluding securities reflected in column (a)) at December 31, 2016 (a) (b) (c) Equity compensation plans approved by security holders 3,012,091 $ 42.12 12,972,457 Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders    Total 3,012,091 $ 42.12 12,972,457 The number of securities remaining available for future issuance includes: 10 million shares available for issuance under the Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2016 Stock Compensation Plan (the 2016 Plan), 2,834,149 shares available for issuance under the Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2012 Stock Compensation Plan (the 2012 Plan), and 138,308 shares available for issuance of share grants under the Directors Stock Plan of 2009. The number of securities remaining available for future issuance assumes the number of securities to be issued from performance-based awards are issued at the target-level performance level. Both the 2016 Plan and 2012 Plan allow for issuance of stock options, service-based or performance-based restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights or other equity-based grants. Awards other than stock options granted from the 2016 and 2012 plans are counted as three shares against the plan for each one share of common stock actually issued. Additional information about share-based associate compensation granted under our equity compensation plans is available in Item 8, Note 17 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 38 The following summarizes shares purchased under our repurchase programs: Period Total number of shares purchased Average price paid per share Total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs Maximum number of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs January 1-31, 2016    4,099,493 February 1-29, 2016    4,099,493 March 1-31, 2016    4,099,493 April 1-30, 2016    4,099,493 May 1-31, 2016    4,099,493 June 1-30, 2016 35,000 $ 69.56 35,000 4,064,493 July 1-31, 2016    4,064,493 August 1-31, 2016    4,064,493 September 1-30, 2016    4,064,493 October 1-31, 2016    4,064,493 November 1-30, 2016 522,428 70.13 522,428 3,542,065 December 1-31, 2016    3,542,065 Totals 557,428 70.09 557,428 We did not sell any of our shares that were not registered under the Securities Act during 2016. Our repurchase program was expanded on October 22, 2007, to increase our repurchase authorization to approximately 13 million shares. Our repurchase program does not have an expiration date. We have 3,542,065 shares available for purchase under our program at December31,2016.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 39 Cumulative Total Return As depicted in the graph below, the five-year total return on a $100 investment made December31,2011, assuming the reinvestment of all dividends, was 198.1 percent for Cincinnati Financial Corporations common stock compared with 144.7percent for the Standard & Poors Composite 1500 Property & Casualty Insurance Index and 98.2percent for the Standard & Poors 500 Index.
The Standard & Poors Composite 1500 Property & Casualty Insurance Index included 25 companies at year-end 2016: The AllstateCorporation, Amerisafe Inc., Aspen Insurance Holdings Limited, TheChubbCorporation, Cincinnati Financial Corporation, Employers Holdings Inc., FirstAmerican Financial Corporation, The Hanover Insurance Group Inc., HCI Group Inc., Infinity Property and Casualty Corporation, Mercury General Corporation, The Navigators Group Inc., Old Republic International Corporation, ProAssurance Corporation, The Progressive Corporation, RLI Corp., Safety Insurance Group Inc., Selective Insurance Group Inc., Stewart Information Services Corporation, TheTravelersCompanies Inc., United Fire & Casualty Company, United Insurance Holdings Corporation, Universal Insurance Holdings Inc., W. R. Berkley Corporation and XL Group Public LimitedCompany.
The Standard & Poors 500 Index includes a representative sample of 500 leading companies in a cross section of industries of the U.S. economy. Although this index focuses on the large capitalization segment of the market, it is widely viewed as a proxy for the total market.
The following graph depicts $100 invested on December 31, 2011, in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. The years shown represent each respective fiscal year ending December 31.
Comparison of Five-Year Cumulative Total Return Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 40 I TEM 6.Selected Financial Data (In millions except per share data and shares outstanding in thousands) Years ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Consolidated Income Statement Data Earned premiums $ 4,710 $ 4,480 $ 4,243 $ 3,902 $ 3,522 Investment income, net of expenses 595 572 549 529 531 Realized investment gains, net * 124 70 133 83 42 Total revenues 5,449 5,142 4,945 4,531 4,111 Net income 591 634 525 517 421 Net income per common share: Basic $ 3.59 $ 3.87 $ 3.21 $ 3.16 $ 2.59 Diluted 3.55 3.83 3.18 3.12 2.57 Cash dividends per common share: Ordinary declared 1.92 1.84 1.760 1.66 1.620 Ordinary paid 1.90 1.82 1.7400 1.643 1.6150 Special declared and paid  0.46    Diluted weighted average shares outstanding 166.5 165.6 165.1 165.4 163.7 Consolidated Balance Sheet Data Total investments $ 15,500 $ 14,423 $ 14,386 $ 13,564 $ 12,534 Net unrealized investment portfolio gains 2,625 2,094 2,719 2,335 1,875 Deferred policy acquisition costs 637 616 578 565 470 Total assets 20,386 18,888 18,748 17,657 16,543 Gross loss and loss expense reserves 5,085 4,718 4,485 4,311 4,230 Life policy and investment contract reserves 2,671 2,583 2,497 2,390 2,295 Long-term debt 787 786 786 785 785 Shareholders' equity 7,060 6,427 6,573 6,070 5,453 Book value per share 42.95 39.20 40.14 37.21 33.48 Shares outstanding 164,387 163,944 163,747 163,109 162,874 Value creation ratio 14.5 % 3.4 % 12.6 % 16.1 % 12.6 % Consolidated Property Casualty Operations Data Earned premiums $ 4,482 $ 4,271 $ 4,045 $ 3,713 $ 3,344 Unearned premiums 2,306 2,200 2,081 1,970 1,790 Gross loss and loss expense reserves 5,035 4,660 4,438 4,241 4,169 Investment income, net of expenses 384 368 358 348 351 Loss and loss expense ratio 63.8 % 60.2 % 65.0 % 61.9 % 63.9 % Underwriting expense ratio 31.0 30.9 30.6 31.9 32.2 Combined ratio 94.8 % 91.1 % 95.6 % 93.8 % 96.1 % We retrospectively adopted ASU 2015-15, Interest-Imputation of Interest: Presentation and Subsequent Measurement of Debt Issuance Costs Associated with Line-of-Credit Arrangements, as of December 31, 2015. Allprior year information has been restated.
On January 1, 2012, we retrospectively adopted ASU 2010-26, Accounting for Costs Associated with Acquiring or Renewing Insurance Contracts.
All prior year information has been restated.
* Realized investment gains and losses are integral to our financial results over the long term, but our substantial discretion in the timing of investment sales may cause this value to fluctuate substantially. Also, applicable accounting standards require us to recognize gains and losses from certain changes in fair values of securities and embedded derivatives without actual realization of those gains and losses. We discuss realized investment gains for the past threeyears in Item 7, Investments Results.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 41 I TEM 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Introduction The purpose of Managements Discussion and Analysis is to provide an understanding of Cincinnati Financial Corporations consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Our Managements Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with Item 6, Selected Financial Data, and Item 8, Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes. Wepresent per share data on a diluted basis unless otherwise noted, adjusting those amounts for all stock splits and stockdividends.
We begin with an executive summary of our results of operations, followed by other highlights, an overview of ourstrategy, an outlook for future performance and details about criticalaccounting estimates. In several instances, werefer to estimated industry data so that we can provide information on our performance within the context of the overall insurance industry. Unless otherwisenoted, the industry data is prepared by A.M.Best Co., a leading insurance industry statistical, analytical and financial strength rating organization. Information from A.M. Best is presented on a statutoryaccounting basis. Whenwe provide our results on a comparable statutory accounting basis, we label it as such; all othercompany dataispresented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the UnitedStates of America (GAAP).
Through The Cincinnati Insurance Company, Cincinnati Financial Corporation is one of the 25largest property casualty insurers in the nation, based on net written premium volume for the first nine months of 2016, among approximately 2,000U.S. stock and mutual insurer groups. We market our insurance products through a select group of independent insurance agencies in 41states as discussed in Item 1, Our Business and Our Strategy.
The U.S. economy, the insurance industry and our company continue to face many challenges. Our long-term perspective has allowed us to address immediate challenges while also focusing on the major decisions that best position the company for success through all market cycles. Webelieve that this forward-looking view consistently benefits our shareholders, agents, policyholders and associates.
To measure our progress, we have defined a measure of value creation that we believe captures the contribution ofour insurance operations, the success of our investment strategy and the importance weplace on paying cash dividends to shareholders. We refer to this measure as our value creation ratio, orVCR, and it is made up of twoprimary components: (1) our rate of growth in book value per share plus(2)the ratio of dividends declared pershare to beginning book value per share. This measure, intended to be all-inclusive regarding changes in bookvalue per share, uses originally reported book value per share in cases where book value per share has beenadjusted, such as after the adoption of Accounting Standards Updates with a cumulative effect of a change inaccounting.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 42 Executive Summary Our value creation ratio, defined above, is our primary performance target. VCR trends are shown in the tablebelow.
One year Three-year % average Five-year % average Value creation ratio: As of December 31, 2016 14.5 % 10.2 % 11.8 % As of December31, 2015 3.4 10.7 10.1 As of December31, 2014 12.6 13.8 11.7 For the period 2013through 2017, we are targeting an annual value creation ratio averaging 10percent to 13percent. At 14.5 percent for 2016, we exceeded the high end of that range. We were within that range for the three-year and five-year periods that ended in December 2016.
The next two tables show the primary components of our value creation ratio, first on a percentage basis and then on a per-outstanding-share basis. Analysis of the components aids understanding of our financial performance. Ourfinancial results are further analyzed in the Corporate Financial Highlights section below.
Years ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Value creation ratio major components: Net income before net realized gains 7.9 % 8.9 % 7.2 % Change in fixed-maturity securities, realized and unrealized gains (0.2 ) (2.6 ) 1.2 Change in equity securities, realized and unrealized gains 6.8 (2.9 ) 4.3 Other 0.0 0.0 (0.1 ) Value creation ratio 14.5 % 3.4 % 12.6 % The 2016 value creation ratio improved by 11.1 percentage points, compared with 2015, and again included strong operating results as its primary contributor. The 2016 ratio improvement included 9.7 percentage points from a rise in market valuation for our equity securities investment portfolio. The 2015 value creation ratio was 9.2percentage points lower thanin 2014, driven by an 11.0 point reduction in the contribution from realized gains plus the change in unrealized gains from our investment portfolios in aggregate.
(Dollars are per share) Years ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Book value change per share: End of period book value $ 42.95 $ 39.20 $ 40.14 Less beginning of period book value 39.20 40.14 37.21 Change in book value $ 3.75 $ (0.94 ) $ 2.93 Change in book value: Net income before realized gains $ 3.11 $ 3.59 $ 2.69 Change in fixed-maturity securities, realized and unrealized gains (0.07 ) (1.04 ) 0.43 Change in equity securities, realized and unrealized gains 2.65 (1.16 ) 1.61 Dividend declared to shareholders (1.92 ) (2.30 ) (1.76 ) Other (0.02 ) (0.03 ) (0.04 ) Change in book value $ 3.75 $ (0.94 ) $ 2.93 Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 43 We believe our value creation ratio, a non-GAAP measure, is a useful supplement to GAAP information. With the continuation of economic and marketuncertainty in recent years, the long-term nature of this measure provides a meaningful measure of our long-term progress in creating shareholder value. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to comparable GAAP measures is shown in the table below.
(Dollars are per share) Years ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Value creation ratio: End of year book value $ 42.95 $ 39.20 $ 40.14 Less beginning of year book value 39.20 40.14 37.21 Change in book value 3.75 (0.94 ) 2.93 Dividend declared to shareholders 1.92 2.30 1.76 Total value creation $ 5.67 $ 1.36 $ 4.69 Value creation ratio from change in book value* 9.6 % (2.3 )% 7.9 % Value creation ratio from dividends declared to shareholders** 4.9 5.7 4.7 Value creation ratio 14.5 % 3.4 % 12.6 % * Change in book value divided by the beginning of year book value ** Dividend declared to shareholders divided by beginning of year book value When looking at our longer-term objectives, we see three primary performance drivers for our value creation ratio:  Premium growth  We believe over any five-year period our agency relationships and initiatives canlead to a property casualty written premium growth rate that exceeds the industry average. The compound annual growth rate of our net written premiums was 8.1percent over the five-year period 2012through 2016, approximately double the 3.8percent estimated growth rate for the property casualty insurance industry. The industrys growth rate excludes its mortgage and financial guaranty lines of business.
Combined ratio  We believe our underwriting philosophy and initiatives can drive performance to achieve ourunderwriting profitability target of a GAAP combined ratio over any five-year period that consistently averageswithin the range of 95 percent to 100percent. Our GAAP combined ratio averaged 94.3percent over the five-year period 2012 through 2016, better than the performance target range. Performance as measured by the combined ratio is discussed in Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Results. Our statutory combined ratio averaged 93.7percent overthe five-year period 2012 through 2016compared with an estimated 99.1percent for the propertycasualty industry. The industrys ratio again excludes its mortgage and financial guaranty lines of business.
Investment contribution  We believe our investment philosophy and initiatives can drive investment incomegrowth and lead to a total return on our equity investment portfolio over a five-year period that exceeds the five-year total return of the Standard & Poors 500 Index.
Investment income growth, on a pretax basis, had a compound annual growth rate of 2.5 percent over the five-year period 2012 through 2016 and 4.0 percent over the three-year period 2014 through 2016. Ithas grown every year since 2009, except for 2013 with its slight decrease of less than 1 percent.
Over the five years ended December 31, 2016, our equity portfolio compound annual total return was 13.3percent compared with a compound annual total return of 14.7percent for the Index. Our equity portfolio favors larger-capitalization, high-quality, dividend growing stocks with a slight value orientation. In recent years, returns for this type of stocks have generally lagged the broader market. Forthe year 2016, our annual equity portfolio total return was 18.2percent, compared with 12.0percent for the Index.
The board of directors is committed to rewarding shareholders directly through cash dividends and share repurchase authorizations. Through 2016, thecompany has increased the annual cash dividend rate for 56consecutive years, a record we believe is matchedby only eight other publicly traded U.S. companies. Inaddition to regular dividends, excellent company performance provided the opportunity to further reward shareholders and was the main driver of a special dividend paid in December 2015. The board regularly evaluatesrelevant factors in dividend-related decisions, and the 2016increase to the regular dividend reflected confidence in our strong capital, liquidity and financial flexibility, as well as progress through our initiatives to Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 44 improve earnings performance while growing insurance premium revenues. We discuss our financial position in more detail in Liquidity and Capital Resources.
Corporate Financial Highlights In addition to the value creation ratio discussion and analysis in the Executive Summary, we further analyze our financial results in the sections below.
Balance Sheet Data (Dollars in millions except share data) At December 31, At December 31, 2016 2015 Total investments $ 15,500 $ 14,423 Total assets 20,386 18,888 Short-term debt 20 35 Long-term debt 787 786 Shareholders' equity 7,060 6,427 Book value per share 42.95 39.20 Debt-to-total-capital ratio 10.3 % 11.3 % Total investments grew 7 percent during 2016 on a fair value basis, with an increase in our securities portfolio valuation that added to the 4 percent increase in its cost basis. Entering 2017, we believe the portfolio continues to bewell diversified and is well positioned to withstand short-term fluctuations. Wediscuss ourinvestment strategy in Item 1, Investments Segment, and results for the segment in Investments Results. Totalassets rose 8percent. Shareholders equity and book value per share each grew by 10percent, for reasons discussed in the preceding Executive Summary.
The amount of our debt obligations decreased by $14 million in 2016, compared with 2015. Our 10.3 percent ratio of debt to total capital (debt plus shareholders equity) at year-end 2016 decreased by 1.0 percentage point compared with the prior-year ratio and remained comfortably within our targetrange.
Income Statement and Per Share Data (Dollars in millions except per share data) Years ended December 31, 2016-2015 2015-2014 2016 2015 2014 Change % Change % Earned premiums $ 4,710 $ 4,480 $ 4,243 5 6 Investment income, net of expenses (pretax) 595 572 549 4 4 Realized investment gains, net (pretax) 124 70 133 77 (47 ) Total revenues 5,449 5,142 4,945 6 4 Net income 591 634 525 (7 ) 21 Comprehensive income 940 234 765 302 (69 ) Net income per share - diluted 3.55 3.83 3.18 (7 ) 20 Cash dividends declared per share 1.92 2.30 1.76 (17 ) 31 Diluted weighted average shares outstanding 166.5 165.6 165.1 1 0 Net income in 2016 decreased $43 million or 7 percent compared with 2015, driven by a decrease in property casualty underwriting income of $94 million after taxes, including $114 million from higher catastrophe losses. The2016 decrease in property casualty underwriting income was partially offset by a $35 million increase in net realized investment gains after taxes and $17 million in investment income after taxes. Dividend income rose 7percent in 2016 while interest income rose 3 percent, driving a net increase in pretax investment income of $23million, or 4percent. Ourinvestment operations performance is discussed further in Investments Results.
Net income increased $109million in 2015, compared with 2014, primarily due to a $130 million increase in property casualty underwriting income after taxes that included $28 million from lower catastrophe losses.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 45 As discussed in Investments Results, sales of securities that had appreciated in value led to realized investment gains in all three years. Realized and unrealized investment gains and losses are integral to our financial results over the long term. Wehave substantial discretion in the timing of investment sales and, therefore, the gains orlosses that are recognized in any period. That discretion generally is independent of the insurance underwritingprocess.
Contribution from Insurance Operations (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016-2015 2015-2014 2016 2015 2014 Change % Change % Consolidated property casualty data: Net written premiums $ 4,580 $ 4,361 $ 4,143 5 5 Earned premiums 4,482 4,271 4,045 5 6 Underwriting profit 242 386 186 (37 ) 108 Pt. Change Pt. Change GAAP combined ratio 94.8 % 91.1 % 95.6 % 3.7 (4.5 ) Statutory combined ratio 94.5 90.6 95.1 3.9 (4.5 ) Written premium to statutory surplus 1.0 1.0 0.9 0.0 0.1 Property casualty net written premiums and earned premiums each grew 5 percent in 2016, reflecting average renewal price increases, a higher level of insured exposures and premium growth initiatives. Premium growth rates in 2016 were similar to 2015. Trends and related factors are discussed in Commercial Lines, Personal Lines and Excess and Surplus Lines Insurance Results, respectively.
Our property casualty insurance operations generated significant underwriting profits for each of the three years ending in 2016. The $144 million decrease in 2016, compared with 2015, included a $175 million increase in losses from natural catastrophe events. The $200 million increase in 2015, compared with 2014, included a $43 million decrease in losses from natural catastrophe events.
We measure property casualty underwriting profitability primarily by the combined ratio. Our combined ratio measures thepercentage of each earned premium dollar spent onclaims plus all expenses related to our property casualty operations, all on a pretax basis. A lower ratio indicates more favorable results and better underlying performance. A ratio below 100 percent represents an underwriting profit. Initiatives to improve our combined ratio are discussed in Item 1, Our Business and Our Strategy, Strategic Initiatives. In 2016, 2015 and 2014, favorable development on reserves for claims that occurred in prior accident years helped offset other incurred losses and loss expenses. Reserve development is discussed further in Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Obligationsand Reserves. Losses from weather-related catastrophes are another important item influencing thecombined ratio and are discussed along with other factors in Financial Results for our property casualty business and related segments.
Our life insurance segment reported a $1 million profit in 2016 and a $2 million loss in 2015. We discuss results for the segment in Life Insurance Results. Most of this segments investment income is included in our investments segment results. In addition to investment income, realized investment gains from the life insurance investment portfolio are also included in our investments segmentresults.
Strategic Initiatives Overview Management has worked to identify a strategy that can lead to long-term success, with concurrence by the boardofdirectors. Our strategy is intended to position us to compete successfully in the markets we have targeted while appropriately managing risk. We discuss our long-term, proven strategy in Item 1, OurBusiness and OurStrategy. We believe successful implementation of initiatives that support our strategy will help us better serve our agent customers and reduce volatility in our financial results while we also grow earnings and book value over the long term, successfully navigating challenging economic, market or industry pricing cycles.
Manage insurance profitability  Implementation of these initiatives is intended to enhance underwriting expertise and knowledge, thereby increasing our ability to manage our business while also gaining efficiency. Better profit margins can arise from additional information and more focused action on underperforming product lines, Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 46 pluspricing capabilities we are expanding through the use of technology and analytics. In addition to enhancing company efficiency, improving internal processes also supports the ability of the independent agencies that represent us to grow profitably by allowing them to serve clients faster and to more efficiently manage agencyexpenses.
Drive premium growth  Implementation of these initiatives is intended to further penetrate each market we serve through our independent agencies. Strategies aimed at specific market opportunities, along with service enhancements, can help our agents grow and increase our share of their business. Premium growth initiatives also include expansion of Cincinnati Re. Diversified growth also may reduce variability of losses from weather-related catastrophes.
Detailed discussion of recent-year financial performance influenced by our strategic initiatives appears below in Financial Results and Liquidity and Capital Resources.
Factors Influencing Our Future Performance Our view of the shareholder value we can create over the next five years relies largely on three assumptions   each highly dependent on the external environment. First, we anticipate our property casualty average insurance prices will increase in proportion to, or in excess of, our loss cost trends. Second, we assume that the economy can maintain a long-term growth track. Third, we assume that valuations of our marketable securities will vary within a typical range over time, based on historical trends. If those assumptions prove to be inaccurate, we may not be able to achieve our performance targets even if we accomplish our strategic objectives.
Other factors that could influence our ability to achieve our targets include:  We expect the insurance marketplace to remain competitive, which is likely to cause carriers to pursuestrategies that they believe could lead to economies of scale, market share gains or the potential for an improved competitive posture.
We expect the independent insurance agency system to remain strong, with continued agency consolidation. Ifsoft insurance market conditions return in the near term, it will create additional risk foragencies.
A return of soft insurance market pricing could significantly affect growth rates and earned premium levels for some time into the future. If the economy falters, we may experience low or no premium growth for our property casualty segments. Premium growth also may lag as some of our growth initiatives require more time to reach their full contribution. In addition, economic factors, including inflation, may increase our claims and settlement expenses related to medical care, litigation andconstruction.
Financial markets continued to display volatility in recent years, and some predict more turbulence in the futurefrom effects such as changes in government policy, growth challenges for emerging country economies or other geopolitical events that could also affect the U.S. economy and markets. Should financial markets decline temporarily, which could occur as part of typical market volatility patterns, the related book value component of our value creation ratio could also register a weak or negativeresult.
We discuss in Item 1A, Risk Factors, many potential risks to our business and our ability to achieve our qualitative and quantitative objectives. These are real risks, but their probability of occurring may not be high. Wealso believe that our risk management programs generally could mitigate their potential effects, in the event they would occur.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 47 Critical Accounting Estimates Cincinnati Financial Corporations financial statements are prepared using U.S. GAAP. These principles require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates.
The significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the financial statements are discussed in Item8, Note1of the Consolidated Financial Statements. In conjunction with that discussion, material implications of uncertainties associated with the methods, assumptions and estimates underlying the companys critical accounting policies are discussed below. The audit committee of the board of directors reviews the annual financial statements with management and the independent registered public accounting firm. These discussions cover the quality of earnings, review of reserves and accruals, reconsideration of the suitability of accounting principles, review of highly judgmental areas including critical accounting estimates, audit adjustments and such other inquiries as may beappropriate.
Property Casualty Insurance Loss and Loss Expense Reserves We establish loss and loss expense reserves for our property casualty insurance business as balance sheet liabilities. Unpaid loss and loss expenses are the estimated amounts necessary to pay for and settle all outstanding insured claims, including incurred but not reported (IBNR) claims. These reserves account for unpaid loss and loss expenses as of a financial statement date.
For some lines of business that we write, a considerable and uncertain amount of time can elapse between the occurrence, reporting and payment of insured claims. The amount we will actually have to pay for such claims also can be highly uncertain. This uncertainty, together with the size of our reserves, makes the loss and loss expense reserves our most significant estimate. Gross loss and loss expense reserves were $5.035 billion at year-end 2016 compared with $4.660 billion at year-end2015.
How Reserves Are Established Our field claims representatives establish case reserves when claims are reported to the company to provide for ourunpaid loss and loss expense obligation associated with individual claims. Field claims managers supervise andreview all claims with case reserves less than $100,000. Additionally, a headquarters supervisor and regionalclaims manager review all claims under $100,000 if litigation or a certain specialty claim is involved. All claims with case reserves of $100,000 or greater are reviewed and approved by an experienced headquarters supervisor andregional claims manager  up from a threshold amount of $35,000 for several years prior to 2015. Upper-level headquarters claims managers also review case reserves of $175,000ormore  up from a threshold amount of $100,000 for several years prior to 2015.
Our claims representatives base their case reserve estimates primarily upon case-by-case evaluations thatconsider:  type of claim involved  circumstances surrounding each claim  policy provisions pertaining to each claim  potential for subrogation or salvage recoverable  general insurance reserving practices Case reserves of all sizes are subject to review on a 90-day cycle, or more frequently if new information abouta loss becomes available. As part of the review process, we monitor industry trends, cost trends, relevant court cases, legislative activity and other current events in an effort to ascertain new or additional loss exposures.
We also establish IBNR reserves to provide for all unpaid loss and loss expenses not accounted for by casereserves:  For events designated as natural catastrophes, we calculate bulk reserves directly as a result of an estimated IBNR claim count and an estimated average claim amount for each event. Once case reserves are establishedfor a catastrophe event, we reduce the bulk reserves. Our claims department management coordinates the assessment of these events and prepares the related bulk reserve estimates. Such an assessment involves a comprehensive analysis of the nature of the event, of policyholder exposures within the Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 48 affected geographic areaand of available claims intelligence. Depending on the nature of the event, available claims intelligence could include surveys of field claims associates within the affected geographic area, feedback from a catastrophe claims team sent into the area, as well as data on claims reported as of the financial statement date. To determine whether an event is designated as a catastrophe, we generally use the catastrophe definition provided by Property Claims Service (PCS), a division of Insurance Services Office (ISO). PCSdefines a catastrophe as an event that causes countrywide damageof $25 million or more in insured property losses and affects a significant number of policyholders and insureds.
For asbestos and environmental claims, we calculate IBNR reserves by deriving an actuarially-based estimate of total unpaid loss and loss expenses. We then reduce the estimate by total case reserves. Wediscuss the reserve analysis that applies to asbestos and environmental reserves in Liquidity and Capital Resources, Asbestos and Environmental Reserves.
For loss expenses that pertain primarily to salaries and other costs related to our claims department associates, also referred to as adjusting and other expense or AOE, we calculate reserves based on an analysis of the relationship between paid losses and paid AOE. Reserves for AOE are allocated to company, line of business and accident year based on a claim countalgorithm. Claim counts reported and used in the reserving process are primarily measured by insurance coverages that are triggered when a loss occurs and a reserve is established.Coverages are defined as unique combinations of certain attributes such as line of business and cause of loss.Claims that are opened and closed without payment are included in the reported claim counts. Claim counts are presented on a direct basis only and do not reflect any assumed or ceded reinsurance. In 2009, we refined our claim count logic such that the definition of an open claim, a closed claim, and a claim that closes without payment was uniform amongst all of our systems, including legacy systems.
Forall other claims and events, including reinsurance assumed, IBNR reserves are calculated as the differencebetween an actuarial estimate of the ultimate cost of total loss and loss expenses incurred reduced bythe sum of total loss and loss expense payments and total case reserves estimated for individual claims. Wediscuss belowthe development of actuarially based estimates of the ultimate cost of total loss and loss expenses incurred.
Our actuarial staff applies significant judgment in selecting models and estimating model parameters when preparing reserve analyses. Unpaid loss and loss expenses are inherently uncertain as to timingand amount. Uncertainties relating to model appropriateness, parameter estimates and actual loss and loss expense amounts are referred to as model, parameter and process uncertainty, respectively. Our management and actuarial staff address these uncertainties in the reserving process in a variety of ways.
Our actuarial staff bases its IBNR reserve estimates for these losses primarily on the indications of methods and models that analyze accident year data. Accident year is the year in which an insured claim, loss or loss expense occurred. The specific methods and models that our actuaries have used for the past several yearsare:  paid and reported loss development methods  paid and reported loss Bornhuetter-Ferguson methods  individual and multiple probabilistic trend family models Our actuarial staff uses diagnostics provided by stochastic reserving software to evaluate the appropriateness of the models and methods listed above. The softwares diagnostics have indicated that the appropriateness of these models and methods for estimating IBNR reserves for our lines of business tends to depend on a lines tail. Tailrefers to the time interval between a typical claims occurrence and its settlement. For our long-tail lines such as workers compensation and commercial casualty, models from the probabilistic trend family tend to provide superior fits and to validate well compared with models underlying the loss development and Bornhuetter-Ferguson methods. The loss development and Bornhuetter-Ferguson methods, particularly the reported loss variations, tend to produce the more appropriate IBNR reserve estimates for our short-tail lines such as homeowner and commercial property. For our mid-tail lines such as personal and commercial auto liability, all models and methods provide usefulinsights.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 49 Our actuarial staff also devotes significant time and effort to the estimation of model and method parameters. Theloss development and Bornhuetter-Ferguson methods require the estimation of numerous loss development factors. The Bornhuetter-Ferguson methods also involve the estimation of numerous ultimate loss ratios by accident year. Models from the probabilistic trend family require the estimation of development trends, calendar year inflation trends and exposure levels. Consequently, our actuarial staff monitors a number of trends and measures to gain key business insights necessary for exercising appropriate judgment when estimating the parameters mentioned, such as:  company and industry pricing  company and industry exposure  company and industry loss frequency and severity  past large loss events such as hurricanes  company and industry premium  company in-force policy count These trends and measures also support the estimation of ultimate accident year loss ratios needed forapplying the Bornhuetter-Ferguson methods and for assessing the reasonability of all IBNR reserve estimates computed. Our actuarial staff reviews these trends and measures quarterly, updating parameters derived from them asnecessary.
Quarterly, our actuarial staff summarizes their reserve analysis by preparing an actuarial best estimate and a range of reasonable IBNR reserves intended to reflect the uncertainty of the estimate. An inter-departmental committee that includes our actuarial management team reviews the results of each quarterly reserve analysis. The committee establishes managements best estimate of IBNR reserves, which is the amount that is included in each periods financial statements. In addition to the information provided by actuarial staff, the committee also considers factors such as:  large loss activity and trends in large losses  new business activity  judicial decisions  general economic trends such as inflation  trends in litigiousness and legal expenses  product and underwriting changes  changes in claims practices The determination of managements best estimate, like the preparation of the reserve analysis that supports it, involves considerable judgment. Changes in reserving data or the trends and factors that influence reserving data may signal fundamental shifts or may simply reflect single-period anomalies. Even if a change reflects a fundamental shift, the full extent of the change may not become evident until years later. Moreover, since our methods and models do not explicitly relate many of the factors we consider directly to reserve levels, we typically cannot quantify the precise impact of such factors on the adequacy of reserves prospectively or retrospectively.
Due to the uncertainties described above, our ultimate loss experience could prove better or worse than our carried reserves reflect. To the extent that reserves are inadequate and increased, the amount of the increase is a charge in the period that the deficiency is recognized, raising our loss and loss expense ratio and reducing earnings. To the extent that reserves are redundant and released, the amount of the release is a credit in the period that the redundancy is recognized, reducing our loss and loss expense ratio and increasing earnings.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 50 Key Assumptions  Loss Reserving Our actuarial staff makes a number of key assumptions when using their methods and models to derive IBNR reserve estimates. Appropriate reliance on these key assumptions essentially entails determinationsof the likelihood that statistically significant patterns in historical data may extend into the future. Thefourmost significant of the key assumptions used by our actuarial staff and approved by management are:  Emergence of loss and defense and cost containment expenses, also referred to as DCCE, on an accident year basis. Historical paid loss, reportedloss and paid DCCE data for the business lines we analyze contain patternsthat reflect how unpaid losses, unreported losses and unpaid DCCE as of a financial statement date will emerge in the future on an accident year basis. Unless our actuarial staff or management identifies reasons or factors that invalidate the extension of historical patterns into thefuture, these patterns can be used to make projections necessary for estimating IBNR reserves. Ouractuaries significantly rely on this assumption in the application of all methods and models mentionedabove.
Calendar year inflation. For long-tail and mid-tail business lines, calendar year inflation trends for futurepaid losses and paid DCCE do not vary significantly from a stable, long-term average. Our actuaries base reserve estimates derived from probabilistic trend family models on thisassumption.
Exposure levels. Historical earned premiums, when adjusted to reflect common levels of product pricing and losscost inflation, can serve as a proxy for historical exposures. Our actuaries require this assumption to estimate ultimate loss ratios and ultimate DCCE ratios used by the Bornhuetter-Ferguson reserving methods. They may also use this assumption to establish exposure levels forrecent accident years, characterized by green or immature data, when working with probabilistic trend familymodels.
Claims having atypical emergence patterns. Characteristics of certain subsets of claims, such as high frequency, high severity, or mass tort claims, have the potential to distort patterns contained in historical paid loss, reported loss and paid DCCE data. When testing indicates this to be the case for a particular subset of claims, our actuaries segregate these claims from the data and analyze them separately. Subsets of claims that could fall into this category include hurricane claims or claims for other weather events where total losses we incurred were very large, individual large claims and asbestos and environmental claims.
These key assumptions have not changed since 2005, when our actuarial staff began using probabilistic trend family models to estimate IBNR reserves.
Paid losses, reported losses and paid DCCE are subject to random as well as systematic influences. As a result, actual paid losses, reported losses and paid DCCE are virtually certain to differ from projections. Such differences are consistent with what specific models for our businesslines predict and with the related patterns in the historical data used to develop these models. Asaresult, management does not closely monitor statistically insignificant differences between actual and projected data.
Reserve Estimate Variability Management believes that the standard error of a reserve estimate, a measure of the estimates variability, provides the most appropriate measure of the estimates sensitivity. The reserves we establish depend on the models we use and the related parameters we estimate in the course of conducting reserve analyses. However, the actual amount required to settle all outstanding insured claims, including IBNR claims, as of a financial statement date depends on stochastic, or random, elements as well as the systematic elements captured by our models and estimated model parameters. For the lines of business we write, process uncertainty  the inherent variability of loss and loss expense payments  typically contributes more to the imprecision of a reserve estimate than parameter uncertainty.
Consequently, a sensitivity measure that ignores process uncertainty would provide an incomplete pictureof the reserve estimates sensitivity. Since a reserve estimates standard error accounts for both processand parameter uncertainty, it reflects the estimates full sensitivity to a range of reasonably likelyscenarios.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 51 The table below provides standard errors and reserve ranges by major property casualty lines of business and in total for net loss and loss expense reserves as well as the potential effects on our net income, assuming a 35percent federal tax rate. Standard errors and reserve ranges for assorted groupings of these lines of business cannot be computed by simply adding the standard errors and reserve ranges of the component lines of business, since such an approach would ignore the effects of product diversification. See Liquidity and Capital Resources, Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Obligations and Reserves, Range of Reasonable Reserves, for more details on our total reserve range. While the table reflects our assessment of the most likely range within which each lines actual unpaid loss and loss expenses may fall,one or more lines actual unpaid loss and loss expenses could nonetheless fall outside of the indicatedranges.
(Dollars in millions) Net loss and loss expense range of reserves Carried reserves Low point High point Standard error Net income effect At December 31, 2016 Total $ 4,737 $ 4,449 $ 4,894 $ 222 $ 144 Commercial casualty $ 1,900 $ 1,707 $ 2,094 $ 193 $ 125 Commercial property 321 289 332 22 14 Commercial auto 558 532 589 29 19 Workers' compensation 954 822 1,002 90 59 Personal auto 287 278 301 12 8 Homeowners 150 138 153 8 5 At December 31, 2015 Total $ 4,379 $ 4,125 $ 4,507 $ 191 $ 124 Commercial casualty $ 1,768 $ 1,570 $ 1,885 $ 157 $ 102 Commercial property 250 211 253 21 14 Commercial auto 480 466 505 19 12 Workers' compensation 955 857 1,038 91 59 Personal auto 245 243 263 10 7 Homeowners 115 102 118 8 5 Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 52 Life Policy and Investment Contract Reserves We establish the reserves for traditional life insurance policies based on expected expenses, mortality, morbidity, withdrawal rates and investment yields, including a provision for uncertainty. Once these assumptions are established, they generally are maintained throughout the lives of the contracts. We use both our own experience and industry experience adjusted for historical trends in arriving at our assumptions for expected mortality, morbidity and withdrawal rates. We use our own experience and historical trends for setting our assumptions for expected expenses. We base our assumptions for expected investment income on our own experience adjusted for current economic conditions.
We establish reserves for our universal life, deferred annuity and investment contracts equal to the cumulative account balances, which include premium deposits plus credited interest less charges and withdrawals. Some of our universal life insurance policies contain no-lapse guarantee provisions. For these policies, we establish a reserve in addition to the account balance based on expected no-lapse guarantee benefits and expected policyassessments.
Asset Impairment Our fixed-maturity and equity investment portfolios are our largest assets. The companys asset impairment committee continually monitors the holdings in these portfolios and all other assets for signs of other-than-temporary or permanent impairment. The committee monitors decreases in the fair value of invested assets; an accumulation of company costs in excess of the amount originally expected to acquire or construct an asset; uncollectability of all receivable assets; or other factors such as bankruptcy, deterioration of creditworthiness, failure to pay interest or dividends; signs indicating that the receivable carrying amount may not be recoverable; and changes in legal factors or in the business climate.
The application of our impairment policy resulted in other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) charges that reduced our income before income taxes by $2 million in 2016, $52 million in 2015 and $24 million in 2014. OTTI losses represent noncash charges toincome and are reported as realized investment losses.
Our internal investment portfolio managers monitor their assigned portfolios. If a security is valued below cost or amortized cost, the portfolio managers undertake additional reviews. Such declines often occur in conjunction with events taking place in the overall economy and market, combined with events specific to the industry or operations of the issuing organization. Managers review quantitative measurements such as a declining trend in fair value, the extent of the fair value decline and the length of time the value of the security has been depressed, as well as qualitative measures such as pending events, credit ratings and issuer liquidity. We are even more proactive when these declines in valuation are greater than might be anticipated when viewed in the context of overall economic and market conditions. We provide information about valuations of our invested assets in Item 8, Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
All securities valued below 100percent of cost or amortized cost are reported to the asset impairment committee for evaluation. Securities valued between 95percent and 100percent of cost or amortized cost are reviewed but not monitored separately by the committee. When evaluating for OTTI, the committee considers the companys intent and ability to retain a security for a period adequate to recover its cost.
Securities that have previously been other-than-temporarily impaired are evaluated based on their adjusted cost or amortized cost and further written down if deemed appropriate. We provide detailed information about securities fair valued in a continuous loss position at year-end 2016 in Item 7A, Application of Asset Impairment Policy.
Impairment charges are recorded for other-than-temporary declines in value if fair value is below cost or amortized cost and, in the asset impairment committees judgment, the fair value is not expected to be recouped within a designated recovery period. When determining OTTI charges for our fixed-maturity portfolio, management places significant emphasis on whether issuers of debt are current on contractual payments and whether future contractual amounts are likely to bepaid. Our invested asset impairment policy states that fixed maturities below their amortized cost that the company (1)intends to sell or (2) more likely than not will be required to sell before recovery of their amortized cost basis are deemed to be OTTI. The amortized cost of any such securities is reduced to fair value as the new cost basis, and a realized loss is recorded in the period in which it is recognized. When these twocriteria are not met, and the company believes that full collection of interest and/or principal is not likely, wedetermine the net present value of future cash flows by using the effective interest rate implicit in the security at the date of acquisition as the discount rate and compare that amount with the amortized cost and fair value of Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 53 thesecurity. The difference between the net present value of the expected future cash flows and amortized cost of the security is considered a credit loss and recognized as a realized loss in the period in which it occurred. Thedifference between the fair value and the net present value of the cash flows of the security, the noncredit loss, is recognized in other comprehensive income as an unrealized loss.
When determining OTTI charges for our equity portfolio, our invested asset impairment policy considers qualitative and quantitative factors, including facts and circumstances specific to individual securities, asset classes, the financial condition of the issuer, changes in dividend payment, the length of time fair value had been less than cost, the severity of the decline in fair value below cost, the volatility of the security and our ability and intent to hold each position until its forecasted recovery.
For each of our equity securities in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2016, we applied the objectivequantitative and qualitative criteria of our invested asset impairment policy for OTTI. Based on the individual qualitative and quantitative factors, as discussed above, we evaluate and determine an expected recovery period for each security. A change in the condition of a security can warrant impairment before the expected recovery period. If the security has not recovered cost within the expected recovery period, the security is other-than-temporarily impaired. Our long-term equity investment philosophy, emphasizing companies with strong indications of paying and growing dividends, combined with our strong statutory capital and surplus, liquidity and cash flow, provide us the ability to hold these investments through what we believe to be slightly longer recovery periods during times of historic levels of market volatility.
Securities considered to have a temporary decline would be expected to recover their cost or amortized cost, which may be at maturity. Under the same accounting treatment as fair value gains, temporary declines (changes in the fair value of these securities) are reflected in shareholders equity on our Consolidated Balance Sheets in accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI), net of tax, and have no impact on net income.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 54 Fair Value Measurements Valuation of Financial Instruments Accounting Standards Codification (ASC)820-10, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures , defines fair value as the exit price or the amount that would be (1)received to sell an asset or (2)paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between marketplace participants at the measurement date. When determining an exit price, we must, whenever possible, rely upon observable marketdata.
We have categorized our financial instruments, based on the priority of the inputs to the valuation technique, into a three-level fair value hierarchy. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3). If the inputs used to measure the financial instruments fall within different levels of the hierarchy, the categorization is based on the lowest level that is significant to the fair value measurement of the instrument. While we consider pricing data from outside services, we ultimately determine whether the data or inputs used by these outside services are observable or unobservable.
Financial assets and liabilities recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets are categorized based on the inputs to the valuation techniques as described in Item 8, Note 3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Level 1 and Level 2 Valuation Techniques Over 99percent of the $15.419 billion of securities in our investment portfolio at year-end 2016, measured at fair value, areclassified as Level 1 or Level 2. Financial assets that fall within Level 1 and Level 2 are priced according to observable data from identical or similar securities that have traded in the marketplace. Also within Level2 are securities that are valued by outside services or brokers where we have evaluated and verified the pricing methodology and determined that the inputs are observable.
Level 3 Valuation Techniques At December 31, 2016, total Level 3 assets were less than 1percent of our investment portfolio measured at fair value. Financial assets that fall within the Level 3 hierarchy are valued based upon unobservable market inputs, normally because they are not actively traded on a public market. Pricing for each Level 3 security is based upon inputs that are market driven, including quotes from brokers or other external sources. We placed in the Level 3 hierarchy securities for which we were unable to obtain the pricing methodology or we could not consider the price provided as binding. Pricingfor securities classified as Level3 could not be corroborated by similar securities priced using observable inputs.
Management ultimately determined the pricing for each Level 3 security that we considered to be the bestexit price valuation. Broker quotes are obtained for thinly traded securities that subsequently fall within the Level3hierarchy. We have generally obtained and evaluated two nonbinding quotes from brokers; our investment professionals determine our best estimate of fair value.
Employee Benefit Pension Plan We have a defined benefit pension plan that was modified during 2008; refer to Item 8, Note 13 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information. Contributions and pension costs are developed from annual actuarial valuations. These valuations involve key assumptions including discount rates, expected return on plan assets and compensation increase rates, which are updated annually. Any adjustments to these assumptions are based on considerations of current market conditions. Therefore, changes in the related pension costs or credits may occur in the future due to changes inassumptions.
Key assumptions used in developing the benefit obligation at year-end 2016 for our qualified plan were a 4.30percent discount rate and rates ofcompensation increases ranging from 2.75percent to 3.25percent. Todetermine the discountrate, a theoretical settlement portfolio of high-quality, rated corporate bonds was chosento provide payments approximately matching the plans projected benefit payments. A single interest rate was determined, resulting in a discounted value of the plans benefit payments that equates to the market value ofthe selected bonds. The discount rate is reflective of current market interest rate conditions and our plan's liabilitycharacteristics.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 55 Key assumptions used in developing the 2016 net pension expense for our qualified plan were a 4.55percent discount rate, a 7.25percent expected return on plan assets and rates of compensation increases ranging from 2.75percent to 3.25percent.
In 2016, the net pension expense was $9 million. In 2017, we expect the net pension expense to be approximately $6million.
Holding all other assumptions constant, a 0.5percentage-point decrease in the discount rate would decrease our 2017income before income taxes by $1 million. A 0.5percentage-point decrease in the expected return on plan assets would decrease our 2017 income before income taxes by $1 million.
The fair value of the plan assets exceeded the accumulated benefit obligation by $6 million and were less than theaccumulated benefit obligation by $15 million at year-end 2016 and 2015, respectively. The fair value of the planassets were $25 million and $45 million less than the projected plan benefit obligation at year-end 2016 and at year-end 2015, respectively. Market conditions and interest rates significantly affect future assets and liabilities of the pension plan. During the first quarter of 2017, we contributed $5million to our qualified plan.
Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs We establish a deferred asset for expenses associated with successfully acquiring property casualty and life insurance policies, primarily commissions, premium taxes and underwriting costs. Underlying assumptions are updated periodically to reflect actual experience, and we evaluate our deferred acquisition cost recoverability.
For property casualty insurance policies, deferred acquisition costs are amortized over the terms of the policies. These costs are principally agent commissions, premium taxes and certain underwriting costs related to successful contract acquisition, which are deferred and amortized into net income as premiums are earned. We assess recoverability of deferred acquisition costs at the segment level, consistent with the ways we acquire, service, manage and measure profitability. Deferred acquisition costs track with the change in premiums.
For life insurance policies, acquisition costs are amortized into income either over the premium-paying period of the policies or the life of the policy, depending on the policy type. These costs are principally agent commissions and underwriting costs related to successful contract acquisition. We analyze our acquisition cost assumptions periodically to reflect actual experience; we evaluate our deferred acquisition cost for recoverability; and we regularly conduct reviews for potential premium deficiencies or loss recognition. Changes in the amounts or timing of estimated future profits could result in adjustments to the accumulated amortization of these costs.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements Information about recent accounting pronouncements is provided in Item 8, Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 56 Financial Results Consolidated financial results primarily reflect the results of our five reporting segments. These segments aredefined based on financial information we use to evaluate performance and to determine the allocation ofassets.
Commercial lines insurance  Personal lines insurance  Excess and surplus lines insurance  Life insurance  Investments We report as Other the noninvestment operations of the parent company and its noninsurer subsidiary, CFCInvestment Company, and the financial results of our reinsurance assumed operations.
We measure profit or loss for our commercial lines, personal lines and excess and surplus lines and life insurance segments based upon underwriting results (profit or loss), which represent net earned premium less loss and lossexpenses and underwriting expenses on a pretax basis. We also evaluate results for our consolidated property casualty insurance operations. That is the total of our standard market segments (commercial lines and personallines), our excess and surplus lines insurance segment and our reinsurance assumed operations. Foranalysis of our consolidated property casualty insurance results, it is important to include our reinsurance assumed operations earned premiums, loss and loss expenses and also underwriting expenses reported as Other. Underwriting results and segment pretax operating income are not substitutes for net income determined in accordance with GAAP.
For our consolidated property casualty insurance operations as well as the insurance segments, statutory accounting data and ratios are key performance indicators that we use to assess business trends and to make comparisons to industry results, since GAAP-based industry data generally is not as readily available.
Investments held by the parent company and the investment portfolios for the insurance subsidiaries are managed and reported as the investments segment, separate from our underwriting business. Net investment income and net realized investment gains and losses for our investment portfolios are discussed in the Investments Results.
The calculations of segment data are described in more detail in Item 8, Note 18, of the Consolidated Financial Statements. The following sections provide analysis and discussion of results of operations for each of the fivesegments.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 57 Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Results Earned and net written premiums for our consolidated property casualty operations grew in 2016, reflecting average renewal price increases, a higher level of insured exposures and strategic initiatives for targeted growth. A key measure of property casualty profitability is underwriting profit or loss. Our 2016 underwriting profit of $242million was $144million less than in 2015, driven by a $175million unfavorable effect from a higher amount of natural catastrophe losses, mostly caused by severe weather. The benefits of higher pricing, and our ongoing initiatives to improve pricing precision and loss experience related to claims and loss control practices, were largely responsible for the remainder of the change in 2016 underwriting profit compared with 2015. That improvement is discussed further below and includes prior accident year loss experience before catastrophes during 2016 that was slightly less favorable than in 2015.
The table below highlights property casualty results, with analysis and discussion in the sections thatfollow. Thatanalysis and discussion includes sections by segment.
Overview  Three-Year Highlights (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016-2015 2015-2014 2016 2015 2014 Change % Change % Earned premiums $ 4,482 $ 4,271 $ 4,045 5 6 Fee revenues 10 8 6 25 33 Total revenues 4,492 4,279 4,051 5 6 Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 2,684 2,579 2,495 4 3 Current accident year catastrophe losses 345 177 230 95 (23 ) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (159 ) (168 ) (72 ) 5 (133 ) Prior accident years catastrophe losses (9 ) (16 ) (26 ) 44 38 Loss and loss expenses 2,861 2,572 2,627 11 (2 ) Underwriting expenses 1,389 1,321 1,238 5 7 Underwriting profit $ 242 $ 386 $ 186 (37 ) 108 Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change Current accident year before catastrophe losses 59.8 % 60.4 % 61.7 % (0.6 ) (1.3 ) Current accident year catastrophe losses 7.7 4.1 5.7 3.6 (1.6 ) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (3.5 ) (3.9 ) (1.8 ) 0.4 (2.1 ) Prior accident years catastrophe losses (0.2 ) (0.4 ) (0.6 ) 0.2 0.2 Loss and loss expenses 63.8 60.2 65.0 3.6 (4.8 ) Underwriting expenses 31.0 30.9 30.6 0.1 0.3 Combined ratio 94.8 % 91.1 % 95.6 % 3.7 (4.5 ) Combined ratio: 94.8 % 91.1 % 95.6 % 3.7 (4.5 ) Contribution from catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development 4.0 (0.2 ) 3.3 4.2 (3.5 ) Combined ratio before catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development 90.8 % 91.3 % 92.3 % (0.5 ) (1.0 ) Performance highlights for consolidated property casualty operations include:  Premiums  Agency renewal written premiums rose $147 million in 2016 and were the primary contributor ofgrowth in earned premiums and net written premiums that rose in eachof our property casualty segments. Therenewal premium increase was largely due to average renewal price increases and a higher level of insured exposures. Priceincreases with enhanced precision continue to benefit operating results.
New business written premiums produced through agencies increased $19 million in 2016, compared with 2015. Agents appointed during 2016 or 2015 produced a 2016 increase in standard lines new business of $38million. Growth initiatives also favorably affect growth in subsequent years, particularly as newer agency relationships mature over time.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 58 Net written premiums increased $38 million in 2016 from expansion of reinsurance assumed operations, known as Cincinnati Re SM . Cincinnati Re assumes risks through reinsurance treaties and in some cases cedes part of the risk and related premiums to one or more unaffiliated reinsurance companies through transactions known as retrocessions. In 2016, earned premiums for Cincinnati Re totaled $49 million.
Other written premiums consist primarily of premiums ceded to reinsurers as part of our ceded reinsurance program and in total contributed $15 million more in 2016 to net written premiums than in 2015. Adecreasein ceded premiums, other than Cincinnati Re premiums, contributed $1 million to net written premium growth in2016, compared with 2015. Other written premiums also included a more favorable adjustment for 2016, compared with 2015, for estimated direct written premiums of policies in effect but not yet processed in ourcommercial lines insurance segment. This written premium adjustment has an immaterial effect on earnedpremiums.
The table below analyzes premium revenue components and trends.
(Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016-2015 2015-2014 2016 2015 2014 Change % Change % Agency renewal written premiums $ 4,072 $ 3,925 $ 3,794 4 3 Agency new business written premiums 551 532 503 4 6 Cincinnati Re net written premiums 71 33  115 nm Other written premiums (114 ) (129 ) (154 ) 12 16 Net written premiums 4,580 4,361 4,143 5 5 Unearned premium change (98 ) (90 ) (98 ) (9 ) 8 Earned premiums $ 4,482 $ 4,271 $ 4,045 5 6  Combined ratio  The 2016 combined ratio increased 3.7 percentage points compared with 2015, reflecting a 3.8percentage-point increase in the ratio for natural catastrophe losses. The 2016 ratio for current accident year losses and loss expenses before catastrophes decreased by 0.6 percentage points, and reflects our belief that our loss experience is improving due to recent-year initiatives to improve pricing precision and claims and loss control practices. The remainder of the 2016 combined ratio increase included 0.4 percentage-points less benefit in the ratio for prior accident year losses and loss expenses before catastrophes. Wefurther discuss ratios related to reserve development in the sections that follow the Catastrophe Losses Incurred table below.
Our statutory combined ratio was 94.5percent in 2016 compared with 90.6 percent in 2015and 95.1percent in 2014. The estimated statutory combined ratio for the property casualty industry, with the industrys ratio excluding its mortgage and financial guaranty lines of business, was 100.7percent in 2016, 98.3percent in 2015 and 97.4percent in 2014. Thecontribution of catastrophe losses to our statutory combined ratio was 7.5percentage points in 2016, 3.7percentage points in 2015 and 5.1percentage points in 2014, compared with industry estimates of 4.9, 3.5 and 4.0percentage points, respectively. Components of the combined ratio are discussedbelow.
Catastrophe loss trends are an important factor in assessing trends for overall underwriting results. Our10-year historical annual average contribution of catastrophe losses to the combined ratio was 6.2percentage points at December31,2016. Ourfive-year average was 6.1percentage points.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 59 The following table shows catastrophe losses incurred for the past three calendar years, netof reinsurance, as well as the effect of loss development on prior period catastrophe reserves. We individually list declared catastrophe events for which our incurred losses reached or exceeded $10 million.
Catastrophe Losses Incurred (Dollars in millions, net of reinsurance) Excess Commercial Personal and surplus Cincinnati Dates Events Regions lines lines lines Re Total 2016 Apr. 2-3 Hail, wind Midwest, Northeast, South $ 5 $ 7 $  $  $ 12 Apr. 10-15 Flood, hail, wind South 48  1  49 Apr. 25-28 Flood, hail, wind Midwest, South 8 4   12 Apr. 29-May 3 Flood, hail, wind Midwest, South 17 8   25 May 7-10 Flood, hail, wind Midwest, South, West 17 11  28 May 11-12 Flood, hail, wind Midwest, South 9 2   11 May 21-28 Flood, hail, wind Midwest, South, West 12 3   15 Jul. 28-29 Flood, hail, wind West 10    10 Sep. 19-23 Flood, hail, wind Midwest 7 5   12 Oct. 6-9 Flood, wind South 22 23  3 48 Nov. 28-30 Fire South 25 20 1  46 Nov. 28-Dec. 1 Flood, hail, wind South 7 3   10 All other 2016 catastrophes 39 27 1  67 Development on 2015 and prior catastrophes (5 ) (4 )   (9 ) Calendar year incurred total $ 221 $ 109 $ 3 $ 3 $ 336 2015 Feb. 16-27 Freezing, ice, snow, wind Midwest, Northeast, South $ 35 $ 9 $  $  $ 44 Apr. 7-10 Flood, hail, wind Midwest, South 7 14   21 Apr. 18-20 Flood, hail, wind Midwest, South 4 6   10 Jul. 12-14 Flood, hail, wind Midwest, South 5 7   12 All other 2015 catastrophes 54 35 1  90 Development on 2014 and prior catastrophes (12 ) (3 ) (1 )  (16 ) Calendar year incurred total $ 93 $ 68 $  $  $ 161 2014 Jan. 5-8 Freezing, ice, snow, wind Midwest, Northeast, South $ 45 $ 24 $ 1 $  $ 70 Apr. 27-May 1 Flood, hail, wind Midwest, Northeast, South 4 9   13 May 10-13 Flood, hail, wind Midwest 6 7   13 May 18-19 Flood, hail, wind Midwest, South, West 23 19 1  43 Jun. 3-4 Flood, hail, wind Midwest 9 1   10 All other 2014 catastrophes 48 32 1  81 Development on 2013 and prior catastrophes (15 ) (11 )   (26 ) Calendar year incurred total $ 120 $ 81 $ 3 $  $ 204 Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 60 Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Loss and Loss Expenses Loss and loss expenses include both net paid losses and reserve changes for unpaid losses as well as the associated loss expenses. For all property casualty lines of business in aggregate, net loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2016, were $358 million higher than at year-end 2015, including $218 million for incurred but not reported (IBNR) reserves. The $358 million reserve increase raised year-end 2016 net loss and loss expense reserves by 8percent, compared with a 5 percent increase in 2016 earned premiums.
For our commercial casualty line of business in 2016, we experienced a rising trend in paid losses and loss expenses that was more than we expected. As a result, we increased our actuarial best estimates of ultimate loss and loss expense ratios at the end of 2016, compared with year-end 2015. Net loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2016, for our commercial casualty line of business was $132 million higher than at year-end 2015. The IBNR portion of the reserve increase was $103million.
Most of the incurred losses and loss expenses shown in the consolidated property casualty insurance results three-year highlightstable are for the respective current accident years, with reserve development on prior accident years shown separately. Since less than half of our consolidated property casualtycurrent accident year incurred losses and loss expenses represents net paid amounts, the majority represents reserves for our estimate of ultimate losses and loss expenses. These reserves develop over time, and we re-estimate previously reported reserves as we learn more about the development of the related claims. Thetable below illustrates that development. Forexample, the 64.5percent accident year 2015 loss and loss expense ratio reported as of December 31, 2015, developed favorably by 2.1 percentage points to 62.4 percent due to claims settling for less than previously estimated, or due to updated reserve estimates for unpaid claims, as of December31, 2016. Accident years 2015 and 2014 have both developed favorably, as indicated by the progression over time for the ratios in the table.
(Dollars in millions) Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident year: 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 as of December 31, 2016 $ 3,029 $ 2,664 $ 2,625 67.5 % 62.4 % 64.9 % as of December31, 2015 2,756 2,665 64.5 65.9 as of December31, 2014 2,725 67.4 Catastrophe loss trends, discussed above, accounted for some of the movement in current accident year loss and loss expense ratio for 2016, compared with 2015. Catastrophe losses added 7.7 percentage points in 2016, 4.1points in 2015 and 5.7points in 2014 to the respective consolidated property casualty current accident year loss and loss expense ratios in the table above.
The 59.8 percent ratio for current accident year loss and loss expenses before catastrophe losses for 2016decreased 0.6percentage points compared with the 60.4percent accident year 2015 ratio measured asof December31,2015. Contributors to the decrease included favorable effects from initiatives, such as ones to improve pricing precision and loss experience related to claims and loss control practices, and were partially offset by more current accident year losses of $1 million or more per claim, shown in the table below.
Reserve development on prior accident years continued to net to a favorable amount in 2016, and was primarily due to lower-than-anticipated loss emergence on known claims. We recognized $168 million of favorable development in 2016, compared with $184 million in 2015 and $98 million in 2014. Of the $16 million decrease in 2016, compared with 2015, $43 million was attributable to our commercial casualty line of business. Approximately 70percent of our net favorable reserve development on prior accident years recognized during 2016 occurred in our commercial casualty, commercial property and workers compensation lines of business. In 2015, our commercial casualty and workers' compensation lines of business were responsible for approximately 85 percent of the favorable reserve development. As discussed in Liquidity and Capital Resources, Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Obligations and Reserves, Property Casualty Insurance Development of Estimated Reserves by Accident Year, commercial casualty and workers' compensation are considered long-tail lines with the potential for revisions inherent in estimating reserves. Favorable development recognized during 2014 was primarily from our commercial property and workers compensation lines of business. Development by accident year is further discussed in Property Casualty Insurance Development of Estimated Reserves by AccidentYear.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 61 Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Losses by Size (Dollars in millions, net of reinsurance) Years ended December 31, 2016-2015 2015-2014 2016 2015 2014 Change % Change % Current accident year losses greater than $5,000,000 $ 26 $ 29 $ 30 (10 ) (3 ) Current accident year losses $1,000,000-$5,000,000 185 161 172 15 (6 ) Large loss prior accident year reserve development (6 ) 27 7 nm 286 Total large losses incurred 205 217 209 (6 ) 4 Losses incurred but not reported 164 70 133 134 (47 ) Other losses excluding catastrophe losses 1,699 1,682 1,660 1 1 Catastrophe losses 327 156 197 110 (21 ) Total losses incurred $ 2,395 $ 2,125 $ 2,199 13 (3 ) Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change Current accident year losses greater than $5,000,000 0.6 % 0.7 % 0.7 % (0.1 ) 0.0 Current accident year losses $1,000,000-$5,000,000 4.1 3.8 4.3 0.3 (0.5 ) Large loss prior accident year reserve development (0.1 ) 0.6 0.2 (0.7 ) 0.4 Total large loss ratio 4.6 5.1 5.2 (0.5 ) (0.1 ) Losses incurred but not reported 3.7 1.6 3.3 2.1 (1.7 ) Other losses excluding catastrophe losses 37.8 39.5 41.0 (1.7 ) (1.5 ) Catastrophe losses 7.3 3.6 4.9 3.7 (1.3 ) Total loss ratio 53.4 % 49.8 % 54.4 % 3.6 (4.6 ) In 2016, total large losses incurred decreased by $12 million, or 6percent, net of reinsurance. The corresponding ratio decreased 0.5 percentage points. Ouranalysis of large losses incurred indicated no unexpected concentration of these losses and reserve increases by geographic region, policy inception, agency or field marketing territory. Webelieve the inherent volatility of aggregate loss experience for our portfolio of larger policies is greater than that of our portfolio of smaller policies, and we continue to monitor the volatility in addition to general inflationary trends in losscosts.
Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Underwriting Expenses (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016-2015 2015-2014 2016 2015 2014 Change % Change % Commission expenses $ 819 $ 792 $ 744 3 6 Other underwriting expenses 555 514 478 8 8 Policyholder dividends 15 15 16 0 (6 ) Total underwriting expenses $ 1,389 $ 1,321 $ 1,238 5 7 Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change Commission expenses 18.3 % 18.5 % 18.4 % (0.2 ) 0.1 Other underwriting expenses 12.4 12.1 11.8 0.3 0.3 Policyholder dividends 0.3 0.3 0.4 0.0 (0.1 ) Total underwriting expense ratio 31.0 % 30.9 % 30.6 % 0.1 0.3 Consolidated property casualty commission expenses rose $27 million, or 3 percent, in 2016, with profit-sharing commissions for agencies decreasing by less than $1 million. Commission expenses as apercent of earned premiums resulted ina ratio that decreased by 0.2 percentage-points compared with 2015, as earned premiums rose 5 percent. The2016 ratio for other underwriting expenses was 0.3percentage-points higher than 2015, reflecting an 8percent increase in those expenses that outpaced growth in earned premiums. During 2016, we continued to carefully manage expenses while also making strategic investments that include enhancement of underwriting expertise, such as personal lines staff additions to support high net worth market expansion.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 62 Commission expenses include our profit-sharing commissions, which are primarily based on one-year and three-year profitability of an agencys business. The aggregate profit trend for agencies that earn these profit-based commissions can differ from the aggregate profit trend for all agencies reflected in our consolidated property casualty results.
Salaries, benefits and payroll taxes for our associates account for approximately half of our property casualty other underwriting expenses. Most of our associates either provide direct service to the property casualty portion of our agencies businesses or provide support to those associates.
Discussions below of our property casualty insurance segments provide additional details about our results.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 63 Commercial Lines Insurance Results Overview  Three-Year Highlights (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016-2015 2015-2014 2016 2015 2014 Change % Change % Earned premiums $ 3,089 $ 2,996 $ 2,856 3 5 Fee revenues 5 4 4 25 0 Total revenues 3,094 3,000 2,860 3 5 Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 1,831 1,757 1,734 4 1 Current accident year catastrophe losses 226 105 135 115 (22 ) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (124 ) (142 ) (42 ) 13 (238 ) Prior accident years catastrophe losses (5 ) (12 ) (15 ) 58 20 Loss and loss expenses 1,928 1,708 1,812 13 (6 ) Underwriting expenses 982 947 902 4 5 Underwriting profit $ 184 $ 345 $ 146 (47 ) 136 Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change Current accident year before catastrophe losses 59.3 % 58.6 % 60.7 % 0.7 (2.1 ) Current accident year catastrophe losses 7.3 3.5 4.8 3.8 (1.3 ) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (4.0 ) (4.7 ) (1.5 ) 0.7 (3.2 ) Prior accident years catastrophe losses (0.2 ) (0.4 ) (0.5 ) 0.2 0.1 Loss and loss expenses 62.4 57.0 63.5 5.4 (6.5 ) Underwriting expenses 31.8 31.6 31.6 0.2 0.0 Combined ratio 94.2 % 88.6 % 95.1 % 5.6 (6.5 ) Combined ratio: 94.2 % 88.6 % 95.1 % 5.6 (6.5 ) Contribution from catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development 3.1 (1.6 ) 2.8 4.7 (4.4 ) Combined ratio before catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development 91.1 % 90.2 % 92.3 % 0.9 (2.1 ) Performance highlights for the commercial lines insurance segment include:  Premiums  Earned premiums and net written premiums rose in2016, primarily due to a $76millionincrease in renewal written premiums that continued to include a price increase for an average policy. New business written premiums in 2016 increased $7 million, or 2 percent, compared with 2015. The increase was driven by production from agencies appointed since the beginning of 2015, offsetting effects of a softening commercial insurance market.
Combined ratio  The 2016 combined ratio increased 5.6 percentage points compared with 2015, including a 4.0percentage-point increase in the ratio for natural catastrophe losses. The 2016 ratio for current accident year losses and loss expenses before catastrophes increased by 0.7 percentage points, including 1.4 points from more current accident year losses of $1 million or more per claim, shown in the table below. Development on prior accident years loss and loss expense reserves beforecatastrophes during 2016 was 0.7 percentage pointsless favorable than in 2015, including 1.9points from re-estimates of IBNR reserves for losses and lossexpenses.
Our largest commercial line of business, commercial casualty, drove the IBNR component of the increase in the commercial lines segment ratio for loss and loss expenses from prior accident years beforecatastrophe losses. That higher estimate for IBNR reserves reflected paid loss trends emerging at levels higher than we previously expected. Despite the reserve increase, our commercial casualty 2016 loss and loss expense ratio remained below 58 percent, indicating a healthy underwriting profit once underwriting expenses are considered.
As discussed in Critical Accounting Estimates, Property Casualty Insurance Loss and Loss Expense Reserves, stable historical paid loss patterns are a key assumption used to make projections necessary for estimating IBNR Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 64 reserves. During 2016, we observed paid losses or re-estimates of case reserves emerging at levels higher than expected for commercial casualty, including a large umbrella liability claim for accident year 2007 and a large general liability claim for accident year 2012. Considering that new data at December 31, 2016, we estimated commercial casualty IBNR reserves for several older accident years at levels more likely to be adequate, compared with estimates at the end of 2015.
Commercial auto, representing 19 percent of 2016 earned premiums for our commercial lines insurance segment, was the only major line of business in that segment with a 2016 total loss and loss expense ratio significantly higherthan wedesired. During 2016, our commercial auto policies experienced average renewal price percentage increases in the mid-single-digit range, which we believe will help improve future profitability. We also continued to improve premium rate classification and use of other rating variables in risk selection andpricing.
Pricing precision and other initiatives to improve commercial lines underwriting profitability complement our business practices that continue to leverage the local presence of our field staff. Field marketing representatives meet with local agencies to assess each risk, determine limits of insurance and establish appropriate terms and conditions. They continue to underwrite new business while field loss control, machinery and equipment and claims representatives continue to conduct on-site inspections. Fieldclaims representatives also assist underwriters by preparing full reports on their first-hand observations of riskquality.
Our commercial lines statutory combined ratio was 93.9percent in 2016, compared with 88.3 percent in 2015and 94.3percent in 2014. The estimated commercial lines combined ratio for the industry was 98.2percent in 2016, 97.5 percent in 2015 and 97.1percent in 2014. The industrys ratio excludes its mortgage and financial guaranty lines of business. The contribution of catastrophe losses to our commercial lines statutory combined ratio was 7.1percentage points in 2016, 3.1percentage points in 2015 and 4.3percentage points in 2014, compared with industry estimates of 3.2,2.1 and 2.4percentage points, respectively.
Commercial Lines Insurance Premiums (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016-2015 2015-2014 2016 2015 2014 Change % Change % Agency renewal written premiums $ 2,832 $ 2,756 $ 2,678 3 3 Agency new business written premiums 372 365 360 2 1 Other written premiums (82 ) (96 ) (116 ) 15 17 Net written premiums 3,122 3,025 2,922 3 4 Unearned premium change (33 ) (29 ) (66 ) (14 ) 56 Earned premiums $ 3,089 $ 2,996 $ 2,856 3 5 We continue to refine our use of predictive analytics tools to improve pricing precision as we further segment commercial lines policies, emphasizing identification and retention of policies we believe have relatively stronger price adequacy. These tools better align individual insurance policy pricing to risk attributes, providing our underwriters with enhanced abilities to target profitability and to discuss pricing impacts with agency personnel. Wealso continue to leverage our local relationships with agents through the efforts of our teams that work closely with them. We believe our field focus is unique and has several advantages, including providing us with quality intelligence on local market conditions. We seek to maintain appropriate pricing discipline for both new and renewal business as management continues to emphasize the importance of our agencies and underwriters assessing account quality to make careful decisions on a case-by-case basis whether to write or renew a policy. Premium rate credits may be used to retain renewals of quality business and to earn new business, but we do so selectively in order to avoid commercial accounts that we believe have insufficient profit margins.
Our 3 percent increase in 2016 agency renewal written premiums included higher average pricing. We measure average changes in commercial lines renewal pricing as the rate ofchange in renewal premium for the newpolicy period compared with the premium for the expiringpolicy period, assuming nochange in the level of insured exposures or policy coverage between those periods for respective policies. In2016, our standard commercial lines policies averaged an estimated pricing change at a percentage in the low-single-digit range, slightly lower than in 2015 that was near the middle of that range, compared with near the high end of that range in 2014. Ouraverage commercial lines pricing change includes the flat pricing effect of certain coverages within package policies written for a three-year term that were in force but did not expire during the period being measured. Therefore, the average Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 65 commercial lines pricing change we report reflects a blend of policies that did not expire and other policies that did expire during the measurement period.
For only those commercial lines policies that did expire and were then renewed during 2016, we estimate that theaverage price increase was near the high end of the low-single-digit range, compared with near the low end of the mid-single-digit range in 2015. During 2016, we continued to further segment our commercial lines policies, emphasizing identification and retention of policies we believed had relatively stronger price adequacy. Conversely,we continued to seek more aggressive renewal terms and conditions on policies we believed had relatively weaker pricing, in turn retaining fewer of those policies. As a result, the average change in commercial lines renewal pricing tended to be lower than in 2015.
Changesin the economy can affect insured exposures that directly relate to premium amounts charged for some policies. Forcommercial accounts, we usually calculate initial estimates for general liability premiums based on estimated sales or payroll volume, while we calculate workers compensation premiums based on estimated payroll volume. Achange in sales or payroll volume generally indicates a change in demand for a businesss goods or services, as well as a change in its exposure to risk. Policyholders whoexperience sales or payroll volume changes due to economic factors may also have other exposures requiring insurance, such as commercial auto or commercial property. Premium levels for these other types of coverages generally are not linked directly to sales or payrollvolumes.
Premiums resulting from audits of actual sales or payrolls that confirmed or adjusted initial premium estimates have had a mixed effect on premium trends in recent years. On an earned premium basis for our commercial lines insurance segment, audits contributed negative $5 million to the $93 million earned premiums increase in 2016, $23million to the $140 million earned premiums increase in 2015 and $5 million to the $220million earned premiums increase in 2014. On a net written premium basis, audits contributed negative $1million to the $97million net written premiums increase in 2016, $20million to the $103 million net written premiums increase in 2015 and $9million to the $162million net written premiums increase in 2014. These net written premium amounts are included with agency renewal written premiums in the Commercial Lines Insurance Premiums table above.
In 2016, our commercial lines new business premiums written by our agencies increased $7 million, or 2percent, compared with 2015. New business premium volume in recent years has been significantly influenced by new agency appointments. Agencies appointed since the beginning of 2015 produced commercial lines new business written premiums of $27million, in aggregate, during 2016, up $17 million from what they produced during 2015. Allother agencies contributed the remaining $345 million, down $10 million from the $355 million they produced in2015.
Fornew business, our field associates are frequently in our agents offices to: help judge the quality of each account; emphasize the Cincinnati value proposition; call on sales prospects with those agents; carefully evaluate risk exposure; and provide their best quotes. Some of our new business comes from accounts that are not new to the agent. We believe these seasoned accounts tend to be priced more accurately than business that is new to us and the agency. As we appoint new agencies who choose to move accounts to us, we report these accounts as new business to us.
Other written premiums primarily consist of premiums that are ceded to reinsurers and that lower our net written premiums. Anincreasein ceded premiums contributed negative $1 million to net written premium growth for 2016, compared with 2015. Other written premiums also included a more favorable adjustment for 2016, compared with 2015, for estimated direct written premiums of policies in effect but not yet processed in our commercial lines insurance segment. This written premium adjustment has an immaterial effect on earned premiums.
Commercial Lines Insurance Loss and Loss Expenses Loss and loss expenses include both net paid losses and reserve changes for unpaid losses as well as the associated loss expenses. For our commercial casualty and commercial auto lines of business in 2016, we experienced a rising trend in paid losses and loss expenses that was more than we expected for certain accident years. As a result, we increased our actuarial best estimate of ultimate loss and loss expense ratios for several accident years within those lines at the end of 2016, compared with year-end 2015. Net loss and loss expense reserves for commercial casualty at December 31, 2016, were $132million, or 7percent, higher than at year-end 2015. The IBNR portion of the reserve increase was $103million. Net loss and loss expense reserves for Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 66 commercial auto at December 31, 2016, were $77million, or 16percent, higher than at year-end 2015. The IBNR portion of the reserve increase was $34million.
Most of the incurred losses and loss expenses shown in the commercial lines insurance segment three-year highlightstable are for the respective current accident years, with reserve development on prior accident years shown separately. Since less than half of our commercial lines insurance segment current accident year incurred losses and loss expenses represents net paid amounts, themajority represents reserves for our estimate of ultimate losses and loss expenses. These reserves develop over time, and we re-estimate previously reported reserves as we learn more about the development of the related claims. The table below illustrates that development. For example, the 62.1percent accident year 2015 loss and loss expense ratio reported as of December 31, 2015, developed favorably by 2.1percentage points to 60.0percent due to claims settling for less than previously estimated, or due to updates to reserve estimates for unpaid claims, as of December31,2015. Accident years 2015 and 2014 for the commercial lines insurance segment have both developed favorably, as indicated by the progression over time of the ratios in the table.
(Dollars in millions) Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident year: 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 as of December 31, 2016 $ 2,057 $ 1,797 $ 1,803 66.6 % 60.0 % 63.1 % as of December31, 2015 1,862 1,843 62.1 64.5 as of December31, 2014 1,869 65.5 Catastrophe losses, as discussed in Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Results, explain some of the movement in current accident year loss and loss expense ratio for accident year 2016, compared with 2015. Catastrophe losses added 7.3 percentage points in 2016, 3.5 points in 2015 and 4.8points in 2014 to the respective commercial lines current accident year loss and loss expense ratios in the tableabove.
The 59.3 percent ratio for current accident year loss and loss expenses before catastrophe losses for 2016increased 0.7percentage points compared with the 58.6percent accident year 2015 ratio measured asof December31,2015. Higher commercial casualty IBNR reserves in 2016, noted above, contributed to the increase.Large losses, described below, and the corresponding ratios for new losses above $1million, contributeda 1.4percentage-point increase to the 2016 ratio. Those unfavorable contributions offset the favorable effects from initiatives, such as those to improve pricing precision and loss experience related to claims and loss control practices.
Commercial lines reserve development on prior accident years of $129 million in 2016 continued to net to a favorable amount, but provided a smaller benefit than the $154 million recognized in 2015. The $25 million net decrease in 2016 included $43 million from our commercial casualty line of business. Most of our commercial lines reserve net favorable development on prior accident years recognized during 2016 occurred in our commercial casualty, commercial property and workers compensation lines of business, with workers' compensation representing 53 percent. Favorable development recognized during 2015 was mostly from our commercial casualty and workers compensation lines of business. Favorable development recognized during 2014 was mostly from our workers compensation line of business. Development by accident year and other trends for commercial lines loss and loss expenses and the related ratios are further discussed in Liquidity and Capital Resources, Property Casualty Insurance Development of Estimated Reserves by Accident Year.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 67 Commercial Lines Insurance Losses by Size (Dollars in millions, net of reinsurance) Years ended December 31, 2016-2015 2015-2014 2016 2015 2014 Change % Change % Current accident year losses greater than $5,000,000 $ 26 $ 29 $ 30 (10 ) (3 ) Current accident year losses $1,000,000-$5,000,000 162 112 149 45 (25 ) Large loss prior accident year reserve development 2 25 7 (92 ) 257 Total large losses incurred 190 166 186 14 (11 ) Losses incurred but not reported 125 51 90 145 (43 ) Other losses excluding catastrophe losses 1,055 1,076 1,096 (2 ) (2 ) Catastrophe losses 214 88 114 143 (23 ) Total losses incurred $ 1,584 $ 1,381 $ 1,486 15 (7 ) Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change Current accident year losses greater than $5,000,000 0.8 % 1.0 % 1.0 % (0.2 ) 0.0 Current accident year losses $1,000,000-$5,000,000 5.3 3.7 5.2 1.6 (1.5 ) Large loss prior accident year reserve development 0.1 0.8 0.3 (0.7 ) 0.5 Total large loss ratio 6.2 5.5 6.5 0.7 (1.0 ) Losses incurred but not reported 4.0 1.7 3.1 2.3 (1.4 ) Other losses excluding catastrophe losses 34.2 35.9 38.4 (1.7 ) (2.5 ) Catastrophe losses 6.9 3.0 4.0 3.9 (1.0 ) Total loss ratio 51.3 % 46.1 % 52.0 % 5.2 (5.9 ) In 2016, total large losses incurred increased by $24 million, or 14percent, net of reinsurance. The corresponding ratio increased 0.7 percentage points. The 2016 increases on both a dollar and ratio basis were primarily due to higher amounts for our commercial casualty and commercial property lines of business. In 2015, total large losses incurred and the corresponding ratio was lower than it was in 2014, largely due to a lower amount of large losses for our commercial casualty and commercial property lines of business. Ouranalysis indicated no unexpected concentration of these losses and reserve increases by geographic region, policy inception, agency or field marketing territory. We believe the inherent volatility of aggregate loss experience for our portfolio of larger policies is greater than that of our portfolio ofsmaller policies, and we continue to monitor the volatility in addition to general inflationary trends in losscosts.
Commercial Lines Insurance Underwriting Expenses (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016-2015 2015-2014 2016 2015 2014 Change % Change % Commission expenses $ 565 $ 550 $ 526 3 5 Other underwriting expenses 402 382 360 5 6 Policyholder dividends 15 15 16 0 (6 ) Total underwriting expenses $ 982 $ 947 $ 902 4 5 Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change Commission expenses 18.3 % 18.4 % 18.4 % (0.1 ) 0.0 Other underwriting expenses 13.0 12.7 12.7 0.3 0.0 Policyholder dividends 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.0 0.0 Total underwriting expense ratio 31.8 % 31.6 % 31.6 % 0.2 0.0 Commercial lines commission expenses as apercent of earned premiums decreased slightly in 2016, compared with 2015, reflecting a decrease in the ratio for agency profit-sharing commissions. The ratio for 2015 matched 2014. In 2016, other underwriting expenses as apercent of earned premiums also increased compared with 2015, as strategic investments that include enhancement of underwriting expertise offset the favorable effects of higher earned premiums and ongoing expense management efforts. In 2015, the ratio matched 2014.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 68 Commercial Lines Insurance Outlook Net written premiums for the commercial lines industry in 2017 are projected to essentially match 2016,with the industry statutory combined ratio estimated at approximately 101percent, excluding its mortgage and financial guaranty lines of business. Over the past several years, renewal and new business pricing has experienced significant competitive pressure, reinforcing the need for more pricing analytics and careful risk selection. While competition remains intense, industrywide commercial lines market pricing turned positive toward the end of 2011 and continued to firm for a period of time, according to several industry surveys. Average renewal pricing for our commercial lines insurance segment generally followed a similar trend. According to a variety of reports that focus on the commercial lines market, commercial lines pricing is expected to continue to soften during 2017. Despite challenging market conditions from strong competition, we believe we can manage our business and execute strategic initiatives to offset market pressures to some extent and profitably grow our commercial lines insurance segment.
We intend to keep marketing our products to a broad range of business classes with a package approach, whilealso continuing to improve our pricing precision and further segmenting among commercial lines policies. Weintend to maintain our underwriting selectivity and carefully manage our rate levels as well as our programs that seek to accurately match exposures with appropriatepremiums. We will continue to evaluate each risk individually and to make decisions about rates, the use of three-year commercial policies and other policy conditions on a case-by-case basis, even in lines and classes of business that are under competitive pressure. For our commercial auto line of business, we will continue to improve premium rate classification and use of other rating variables in risk selection and pricing. We believe that our initiatives to improve pricing precision and lower loss costs will continue to benefit commercial lines profitability during 2017, and that recent-year premium growth initiatives will continue to grow commercial lines premiums at a rate exceeding the industry.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 69 Personal Lines Insurance Results Overview  Three-Year Highlights (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016-2015 2015-2014 2016 2015 2014 Change % Change % Earned premiums $ 1,161 $ 1,097 $ 1,041 6 5 Fee revenues 4 3 2 33 50 Total revenues 1,165 1,100 1,043 6 5 Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 731 713 660 3 8 Current accident year catastrophe losses 113 71 92 59 (23 ) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses  8 (1 ) (100 ) nm Prior accident years catastrophe losses (4 ) (3 ) (11 ) (33 ) 73 Loss and loss expenses 840 789 740 6 7 Underwriting expenses 337 323 293 4 10 Underwriting (loss) profit $ (12 ) $ (12 ) $ 10 0 nm Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change Current accident year before catastrophe losses 63.0 % 64.9 % 63.4 % (1.9 ) 1.5 Current accident year catastrophe losses 9.7 6.5 8.8 3.2 (2.3 ) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses 0.0 0.8 (0.1 ) (0.8 ) 0.9 Prior accident years catastrophe losses (0.3 ) (0.3 ) (1.0 ) 0.0 0.7 Loss and loss expenses 72.4 71.9 71.1 0.5 0.8 Underwriting expenses 29.0 29.4 28.1 (0.4 ) 1.3 Combined ratio 101.4 % 101.3 % 99.2 % 0.1 2.1 Combined ratio: 101.4 % 101.3 % 99.2 % 0.1 2.1 Contribution from catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development 9.4 7.0 7.7 2.4 (0.7 ) Combined ratio before catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development 92.0 % 94.3 % 91.5 % (2.3 ) 2.8 Performance highlights for the personal lines insurance segment include:  Premiums  Earned premiums and net written premiums continued to grow in2016, primarily due to higher renewal written premiums that included price increases. Renewal written premiums rose $58 million, or 6 percent, in 2016, compared with 2015.
Combined ratio  The 2016 combined ratio rose 0.1 percentage points, compared with 2015, driven by a 3.2percentage-point increase in the ratio for 2016 natural catastrophe losses. The total large loss ratio for losses of $1 million or more per claim, shown in the table below, decreased by 3.0 percentage points, largely due to lower losses for homeowner claims and personal umbrella claims related to auto accidents.
Personal auto, representing 47 percent of 2016 earned premiums for our personal lines insurance segment, was the only major line of business in that segment with a 2016 total loss and loss expense ratio significantly higherthan wedesired. During 2016, our personal auto policies experienced premium rate increases averaging near the high end of the mid-single-digit range. We believe rate increase and other actions to improve pricing precision and reduce loss costs will improve future profitability. A similar approach was used to improve the total loss and loss expense ratio for our homeowner line of business to a satisfactory result in recent years.
We have increased our pricing precision and implemented numerous rate increases in recent years to improve our personal lines insurance segment results. In addition, we have made greater use of higher minimum loss deductibles and nonrenewed policies in select areas more prone to natural catastrophes. We have worked to improve our geographic diversification by expanding our personal lines operation to several states less prone tocatastrophes.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 70 Our personal lines statutory combined ratio was 100.8percent in 2016, up from 100.0percent in 2015 and 99.1percent in 2014. By comparison, the estimated industry personal lines combined ratio was 102.6percent in 2016, 99.6percent in 2015 and 98.8percent in 2014. Our concentration of business in areas affected by catastrophe events contributed to recent-year results that differed from the overall industry, an issue we are addressing in part through gradual geographic expansion. The contribution of catastrophe losses to our personal lines statutory combined ratio was 9.4percentage points in 2016, 6.2percentage points in 2015 and 7.8percentage points in 2014, compared with industry estimates of 6.0,4.8 and 5.5percentage points, respectively.
Personal Lines Insurance Premiums (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016-2015 2015-2014 2016 2015 2014 Change % Change % Agency renewal written premiums $ 1,099 $ 1,041 $ 1,005 6 4 Agency new business written premiums 122 111 92 10 21 Other written premiums (23 ) (24 ) (29 ) 4 17 Net written premiums 1,198 1,128 1,068 6 6 Unearned premium change (37 ) (31 ) (27 ) (19 ) (15 ) Earned premiums $ 1,161 $ 1,097 $ 1,041 6 5 Personal lines insurance is a strategic component of our overall relationship with most of our agencies and is an important component of our agencies relationships with their clients. We believe agents recommend our personal insurance products to their clients who seek to balance quality and price and who are attracted by our superior claims service and the benefits of our package approach. We also believe our continuing efforts to improve pricing precision are helping us attract and retain more of our agencies preferred business, while also obtaining higher rates for more thinly priced business. Our progress toward broader geographic diversification is reflected in part through premium growth trends. Personal lines earned premiums in our fivehighest volume states increased in aggregate by 4percent in 2016, while premiums for the remaining states that include our newer areas of operation increased 8percent in aggregate.
The 6 percent increase in agency renewal written premiums in 2016 largely reflected various rate changes. Weestimate that premium rates for our personal auto line of business increased at average percentages near thehigh end of the mid-single-digit range during 2016, with some individual policies experiencing lower or higher rate changes based on enhanced pricing precision enabled by predictive models. For our homeowner line of business, we estimate that rate increases during 2016 averaged in the mid-single-digit range. Similar to our personal auto line of business, that average varied widely by state, and some individual policies experienced lower or higher rate changes based on pricing precision and current rate level indications that help determine appropriate premium rates.
Personal lines new business written premiums grew $11 million, or 10 percent, during 2016, compared with 2015. That growth was driven by policies from high net worth clients of our agencies. Personal linesnew business written premiums from our high net worth policies totaled approximately $30 million for 2016, compared with $17 million for 2015. The decrease of approximately $2 million in new business written premiums for the part of our personal lines segment we sometimes refer to as middle market business is largely a reflection of a slight decline in policy retention due to significant premium rate increases for our personal auto policies during 2016. Some of what we report as new business came from accounts that were not new to our agents. Webelieve our agentsseasoned accounts tend to be priced more accurately than business that may be less familiar to them.
Personal lines new business written premiums grew significantly in 2015, compared with 2014. Key factors contributing to that increase included an increase in larger-sized policy submissions due to underwriting appetite and pricing changes made to our existing personal lines products, increased visibility of underwriters and additional marketing efforts directed toward our agencies. In addition, in 2014 we began rolling out advanced quote discounts for home and auto and new home purchase discounts in most states, allowing us to compete more effectively in the comparative rater environment.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 71 Other written premiums primarily consist of premiums that are ceded to reinsurers and that lower our net written premiums. Ceded premiums for 2016 essentially matched 2015.
Personal Lines Insurance Loss and Loss Expenses Loss and loss expenses include both net paid losses and reserve changes for unpaid losses as well as theassociated loss expenses. For our personal auto line of business in 2016, we experienced a rising trend in paidlosses and loss expenses that was more than we expected. As a result, we increased our actuarial best estimate of ultimate loss and loss expense ratios for that line at the end of 2016, compared with year-end 2015. Netloss and loss expense reserves for our personal auto line of business at December 31, 2016, were $43 million, or 18percent, higher than at year-end 2015. The IBNR portion of the reserve increase was $27million.
Most of the incurred losses and loss expenses shown in the personal lines insurancesegment three-year highlightstable are for the respective current accident years, with reserve development on prior accident years shown separately. Since approximately two-thirds of our personal lines currentaccident year incurred losses and loss expenses represent net paid amounts, the remaining one-third represents reserves for our estimate ofultimate losses and loss expenses. Thesereserves develop over time, and we re-estimate previously reportedreserves as we learn more about the development of the related claims. Thetable below illustrates that development. Forexample, the 71.4percent accident year 2015 loss and loss expense ratio reported asof December 31, 2015, developed favorably by 1.0percentage points to 70.4percent due to claims settling for less than previously estimated, or due to updated reserve estimates for unpaid claims, as of December31,2016. Accident year 2014 for the personal lines insurance segment developed favorably during 2015 and then developed unfavorably during 2016, as indicated by the progression over time for the ratios in the table. The unfavorable development during 2016 reflects the personal auto reserve addition described above.
(Dollars in millions) Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident year: 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 as of December 31, 2016 $ 844 $ 773 $ 739 72.7 % 70.4 % 71.0 % as of December31, 2015 784 732 71.4 70.4 as of December31, 2014 752 72.2 Catastrophe losses, as discussed in Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Results, explain much of the movement in current accident year loss and loss expense ratio for accident year 2016, compared with accident year 2015. Catastrophe losses added 9.7 percentage points in 2016, 6.5points in 2015 and 8.8points in 2014 to the respective personal lines current accident year loss and loss expense ratios in the table above. Personal lines catastrophe losses for 2016 resulted in a ratio near our 10.9 percent 10-year annual average for personal lines that included 22.8 percent for 2011. Our personal lines catastrophe loss ratios for 2015 and 2014 were closer to our 8.7percent 10-year annual average for the years 2001 through 2010. Personal lines catastrophe losses also are inherently volatile, as discussed above and in Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Results.
The 63.0 percent ratio for current accident year loss and loss expenses before catastrophe losses for 2016improved 1.9percentage points compared with the 64.9percent accident year 2015 ratio measured as ofDecember31,2015. The improvement was largely due to a 2.4 percentage-point decrease in the ratio for current accident year losses of $1 million or more per claim, shown in the table below, that were primarily for homeowner claims and personal umbrella claims related to auto accidents.
Personal lines loss and loss expense reserve development on prior accident years recognized in 2016 was favorable by $4 million, in aggregate, compared with an unfavorable net amount of $5 million in 2015. The 2016 net favorable reserve development included an unfavorable $18 million for our personal auto line of business, primarily for accident years 2013 through 2015, favorable $8 million for our homeowner line business and the remainder was favorable for our other personal line of business. In 2016, personal auto included a refinement to reserves for loss expenses, transferring approximately $10 million of reserves to various lines of business in our commercial lines segment. For losses only, our 2016 personal auto prior accident year net reserve development was unfavorable by $25million. The 2015 unfavorable development was driven by $15 million of unfavorable development for our personal auto line of business, including $10 million for accident year 2013. Our personal lines 2015 net unfavorable reserve development on prior accident years included $12 million of favorable development in our homeowner line of business. Favorable development recognized during 2015 and 2014 was primarily from our Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 72 homeowner line of business. Development by accident year and other trends for personal lines loss and loss expenses and the related ratios are further discussed in Liquidity and Capital Resources, Property Casualty Insurance Development of Estimated Reserves by Accident Year.
Personal Lines Insurance Losses by Size (Dollars in millions, net of reinsurance) Years ended December 31, 2016-2015 2015-2014 2016 2015 2014 Change % Change % Current accident year losses greater than $5,000,000 $  $  $  nm nm Current accident year losses $1,000,000-$5,000,000 19 45 20 (58 ) 125 Large loss prior accident year reserve development (7 )  1 nm (100 ) Total large losses incurred 12 45 21 (73 ) 114 Losses incurred but not reported 35 18 19 94 (5 ) Other losses excluding catastrophe losses 592 566 539 5 5 Catastrophe losses 107 66 79 62 (16 ) Total losses incurred $ 746 $ 695 $ 658 7 6 Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change Current accident year losses greater than $5,000,000 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 0.0 Current accident year losses $1,000,000-$5,000,000 1.7 4.1 1.9 (2.4 ) 2.2 Large loss prior accident year reserve development (0.6 ) 0.0 0.1 (0.6 ) (0.1 ) Total large loss ratio 1.1 4.1 2.0 (3.0 ) 2.1 Losses incurred but not reported 3.0 1.6 1.8 1.4 (0.2 ) Other losses excluding catastrophe losses 51.0 51.6 51.9 (0.6 ) (0.3 ) Catastrophe losses 9.2 6.0 7.6 3.2 (1.6 ) Total loss ratio 64.3 % 63.3 % 63.3 % 1.0 0.0 In 2016, personal lines total large losses incurred decreased by $33 million, or 73percent, compared with 2015, net of reinsurance. The ratio for 2016 large losses as a percent of earned premiums decreased 3.0 percentage points.
The 2016 decreases on both a dollar and ratio basis were largely due to lower amounts for homeowner claims and personal umbrella claims related to auto accidents. In 2015, total large losses increased, compared with 2014, primarily due to higher amounts of personal umbrella claims related to auto accidents. Ouranalysis indicated no unexpected concentration of these losses and reserve increases by risk category, geographic region, policy inception, agency or field marketing territory. Webelieve the inherent volatility of aggregate loss experience for our portfolio of larger policies is greater than that of our portfolio of smaller policies, and we continue to monitor the volatility in addition to general inflationary trends in loss costs.
Personal Lines Insurance Underwriting Expenses (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016-2015 2015-2014 2016 2015 2014 Change % Change % Commission expenses $ 209 $ 206 $ 191 1 8 Other underwriting expenses 128 117 102 9 15 Total underwriting expenses $ 337 $ 323 $ 293 4 10 Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change Commission expenses 18.0 % 18.8 % 18.3 % (0.8 ) 0.5 Other underwriting expenses 11.0 10.6 9.8 0.4 0.8 Total underwriting expense ratio 29.0 % 29.4 % 28.1 % (0.4 ) 1.3 Personal lines commission expense as apercent of earned premiums decreased in 2016 compared with 2015. Thedecrease reflected an unusually high 2015 ratio from changes in estimates related to allocations of deferred acquisition costs by segment. Other underwriting expenses as apercent of earned premiums rose in 2016.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 73 Theratio increase was largely due to strategic investments that included enhancement of underwriting expertise, such as personal lines staff additions to support our high net worth market expansion.
Personal Lines Insurance Outlook A.M. Best projections for 2017 indicate personal lines written premiums for the U.S. property casualty industry may grow approximately 3 percent, with an industry statutory combined ratio estimated at approximately 100percent. Webelieve our growth rate will likely be higher than the industry projection for 2017, driven by our rate increases, stable policy retention rate, accelerated pace of new agency appointments in recent years and increased focus on the high net worth personal lines market. Our high net worth initiative, along with various other actions to improve performance in our personal lines insurance segment, is discussed in greater detail in Item 1, Our Business and Our Strategy, Strategic Initiatives and Personal Lines Insurance Results. Our personal lines pricing trends need to exceed loss trends to improve personal lines profitability, thereby helping to achieve our corporate financial targets. Wediscuss our overall outlook for our property casualty insurance operations in the Executive Summary.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 74 Excess and Surplus Lines Insurance Results Overview  Three-Year Highlights (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016-2015 2015-2014 2016 2015 2014 Change % Change % Earned premiums $ 183 $ 168 $ 148 9 14 Fee revenues 1 1  0 nm Total revenues 184 169 148 9 14 Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 99 104 101 (5 ) 3 Current accident year catastrophe losses 3 1 3 200 (67 ) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (34 ) (34 ) (29 ) 0 (17 ) Prior accident years catastrophe losses  (1 )  nm nm Loss and loss expenses 68 70 75 (3 ) (7 ) Underwriting expenses 54 48 43 13 12 Underwriting profit $ 62 $ 51 $ 30 22 70 Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change Current accident year before catastrophe losses 54.4 % 62.1 % 68.1 % (7.7 ) (6.0 ) Current accident year catastrophe losses 1.6 0.5 1.8 1.1 (1.3 ) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (18.3 ) (20.6 ) (19.6 ) 2.3 (1.0 ) Prior accident years catastrophe losses (0.1 ) (0.1 ) 0.2 0.0 (0.3 ) Loss and loss expenses 37.6 41.9 50.5 (4.3 ) (8.6 ) Underwriting expenses 29.4 28.1 28.9 1.3 (0.8 ) Combined ratio 67.0 % 70.0 % 79.4 % (3.0 ) (9.4 ) Combined ratio: 67.0 % 70.0 % 79.4 % (3.0 ) (9.4 ) Contribution from catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development (16.8 ) (20.2 ) (17.6 ) 3.4 (2.6 ) Combined ratio before catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development 83.8 % 90.2 % 97.0 % (6.4 ) (6.8 ) Our excess and surplus lines insurance segment includes results of The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company and CSU Producer Resources Inc. Performance highlights for this segmentinclude:  Premiums  Earned premiums and net written premiums continued to grow during 2016. Growth was driven by higher renewal written premiumsthat included average renewal price increases near the high end of the low-single-digit range. New business written premiums grew 2 percent in 2016, a slower rate than in 2015, as we continued to carefully underwrite each policy in a highly competitive market. Within the excess and surplus lines market during 2016, some standard market carriers sought to increase market share by writing policies for larger risks formerly considered excess and surplus lines business.
Combined ratio  The combined ratio improved 3.0 percentage points in 2016, primarily due to improved experience in current accident year losses and loss expenses before catastrophe losses that reflects careful underwriting.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 75 Excess and Surplus Lines Insurance Premiums (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016-2015 2015-2014 2016 2015 2014 Change % Change % Agency renewal written premiums $ 141 $ 128 $ 111 10 15 Agency new business written premiums 57 56 51 2 10 Other written premiums (9 ) (9 ) (9 ) 0 0 Net written premiums 189 175 153 9 14 Unearned premium change (6 ) (7 ) (5 ) 14 (40 ) Earned premiums $ 183 $ 168 $ 148 9 14 The $13 million increase in 2016 renewal premiums reflected the opportunity to renew many policies for the first time as well as higher renewal pricing. Average renewal price increases were near the high end of the low-single-digit range during 2016, while 2015 was near the low end of the mid-single-digit range. We measure average changes in excess and surplus lines renewal pricing as the rate of change in renewal premium for the new policy period compared with the premium for the expiring policy period, assuming no change in the level of insured exposures or policy coverage between those periods for respective policies.
New business written premiums and other written premiums in 2016 were similar to amounts in 2015. Other written premiums are primarily premiums that are ceded to reinsurers and that lower our net written premiums.
Excess and Surplus Lines Loss and Loss Expenses Loss and loss expenses include both net paid losses and reserve changes for unpaid losses, as well as the associated loss expenses. The majority of the total incurred losses and loss expenses shown above in the three-year highlights table are for the respective current accident years, with reserve development on prior accident years shown separately. Since less than 20 percent of our 2016excess and surplus lines current accident year incurred losses and loss expenses represents net paid amounts, a large majority represents reserves for our estimate of unpaid losses and loss expenses. These reserves develop over time, and we update our estimates of previously reported reserves as we learn more about the development of the related claims. The table below illustrates that development. For example, the 62.6percent accident year 2015 loss and loss expense ratio reported as of December 31, 2015, developed favorably by 8.7 percentage points to 53.9percent due to claims settling for less than previously estimated, or due to updated reserve estimates for unpaid claims, as of December 31, 2016. Accident years 2015 and 2014 for this segment have both developed favorably, as indicated by the progression over time of the ratios in the table.
(Dollars in millions) Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident year: 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 as of December 31, 2016 $ 102 $ 91 $ 83 56.0 % 53.9 % 55.8 % as of December31, 2015 105 90 62.6 60.5 as of December31, 2014 104 69.9 Catastrophe losses, as discussed in Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Results, explain some of the movement in current accident year loss and loss expense ratio for accident year 2016, compared with 2015. Catastrophelosses added 1.6 percentage points in 2016, 0.5percentage points in 2015 and 1.8percentage points in 2014, to the respective excess and surplus lines current accident year loss and loss expense ratios in the tableabove.
The 54.4 percent ratio for current accident year loss and loss expenses before catastrophe losses for 2016decreased 7.7 percentage points compared with the 62.1 percent accident year 2015 ratio measured as of December31, 2015. We also recognized significant favorable reserve development on prior accident years during both 2016and 2015, with a ratio effect of approximately 20 percentage points for each year.
Excess and surplus lines reserve development on prior accident years continued to net to a favorable amount in2016as $34 million was recognized, compared with $35 million in 2015. Approximately two-thirds of the Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 76 2016favorable development was for accident years 2015 and 2014 in aggregate, and was primarily due to lower-than-anticipated loss emergence on knownclaims.
We believe the loss and loss expense reserves for our excess and surplus lines business are adequate. Theamount of outstanding reserves for our excess and surplus lines operation can be seen in a table in Liquidity and Capital Resources, Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Obligations and Reserves. One indication of how long it takes for most of the outstanding reserves to be settled is to measure outstanding reserves by accident year at different points in time. For accident year 2011 and all accident years prior to that, at December 31, 2011, we reported reserves for estimated unpaid losses and loss expenses of $77 million, net of reinsurance. AtDecember 31, 2016, our estimate for the remaining unpaid losses and loss expenses that occurred in those accident years was approximately $4million. The inherent uncertainty in estimating reserves is discussed in Liquidity and Capital Resources, Property Casualty Insurance Loss and Loss Expense Obligations and Reserves. Development trends by accident year are further discussed in Property Casualty Insurance Development of Estimated Reserves by Accident Year.
Excess and Surplus Lines Insurance Losses by Size (Dollars in millions, net of reinsurance) Years ended December 31, 2016-2015 2015-2014 2016 2015 2014 Change % Change % Current accident year losses greater than $5,000,000 $  $  $  nm nm Current accident year losses $1,000,000-$5,000,000 3 4 3 (25 ) 33 Large loss prior accident year reserve development  3 (1 ) nm nm Total large losses incurred 3 7 2 (57 ) 250 Losses incurred but not reported 5 2 24 150 (92 ) Other losses excluding catastrophe losses 31 35 25 (11 ) 40 Catastrophe losses 3 1 4 200 (75 ) Total losses incurred $ 42 $ 45 $ 55 (7 ) (18 ) Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change Current accident year losses greater than $5,000,000 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 0.0 Current accident year losses $1,000,000-$5,000,000 1.7 2.4 2.3 (0.7 ) 0.1 Large loss prior accident year reserve development (0.3 ) 1.7 (0.9 ) (2.0 ) 2.6 Total large loss ratio 1.4 4.1 1.4 (2.7 ) 2.7 Losses incurred but not reported 2.9 1.0 16.4 1.9 (15.4 ) Other losses excluding catastrophe losses 16.8 21.2 17.2 (4.4 ) 4.0 Catastrophe losses 1.5 0.4 1.8 1.1 (1.4 ) Total loss ratio 22.6 % 26.7 % 36.8 % (4.1 ) (10.1 ) In 2016, total large losses incurred decreased by $4 million or 57percent, net of reinsurance. The ratio for 2016 large losses as a percent of earned premiums decreased 2.7 percentage points. That ratio for 2015 trended in the opposite direction, due to 2015 total large losses increasing from 2014. Ouranalysis indicated no unexpected concentration of these losses and reserve increases by risk category, geographic region, policy inception, agency or field marketing territory. We believe the inherent volatility of aggregate loss experience for our portfolio of larger policies is greater than that of our portfolio of smaller policies, and we continue to monitor the volatility in addition to general inflationary trends in loss costs.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 77 Excess and Surplus Lines Insurance Underwriting Expenses (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016-2015 2015-2014 2016 2015 2014 Change % Change % Commission expenses $ 36 $ 33 $ 27 9 22 Other underwriting expenses 18 15 16 20 (6 ) Total underwriting expenses $ 54 $ 48 $ 43 13 12 Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change Commission expenses 19.4 % 19.2 % 18.3 % 0.2 0.9 Other underwriting expenses 10.0 8.9 10.6 1.1 (1.7 ) Total underwriting expenses ratio 29.4 % 28.1 % 28.9 % 1.3 (0.8 ) Excess and surplus lines commission expense as a percent of earned premiums for 2016 rose slightly from 2015, driven by an increase in profit-sharing commissions for agencies. Other underwriting expenses increased in 2016, compared with 2015, largely due to strategic investments that include enhancement of underwriting expertise, such as upgrades to systems used in underwriting excess and surplus lines insurance policies. Those ratio-increase effects offset the favorable ratio-decrease effects of higher earned premiums and ongoing expense management efforts. In 2015, the ratio declined, largely duetoearned premiums rising faster than those expenses.
Excess and Surplus Lines Outlook The excess and surplus lines market is expected to see the magnitude of rate increases continue to decline on several classes of business due to increased capacity in the market. Competition is expected to remain strong, especially on large accounts, due primarily to standard market insurance companies insuring businesses that previously were written by excess and surplus lines insurers. Firming is expected to continue for specific classes of business where loss costs are exceeding rates, such as habitational for property coverages and general liability for liquor liability coverages.
Industry reports suggest that there are opportunities for profitability and growth through greater use of technology. Technology and data are also being used by excess and surplus lines insurance companies to identify new exposures in emerging businesses that need insurance protection or other value-added services.
Our strategy of providing superior service is expected to continue to grow our excess and surplus lines insurance segment and to achieve profitability despite challenging market conditions. We intend to keep carefully selecting and pricing risks, providing prompt delivery of insurance quotes and policies and giving outstanding claims and loss control service from local field representatives who also handle the standard lines business for their assigned agencies. These local representatives are supported by headquarters underwriters and claims managers who specialize in excess and surplus lines.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 78 Life Insurance Results Overview  Three-Year Highlights (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016-2015 2015-2014 2016 2015 2014 Change % Change % Earned premiums $ 228 $ 209 $ 198 9 6 Fee revenues 5 5 6 0 (17 ) Total revenues 233 214 204 9 5 Contract holders' benefits incurred 246 236 229 4 3 Investment interest credited to contract holders' (90 ) (86 ) (83 ) (5 ) (4 ) Underwriting expenses incurred 76 66 63 15 5 Total benefits and expenses 232 216 209 7 3 Life insurance segment profit (loss) $ 1 $ (2 ) $ (5 ) nm (60 ) Performance highlights for the life insurance segment include:  Revenues  Earned premiums rose 9 percent for the year 2016, as shown in the table below that includes details by major line of business. Our largest life insurance product line, term life insurance, rose 10 percent. Net in-force policy face amounts rose 8 percent to $56.808 billion at year-end 2016 from $52.735billion at year-end 2015 and $50.356 billion at year-end 2014.
Profitability  The life insurance segment frequently reports only a small profit or loss because most of its investment income is included in the investments segment results. We include only investment income credited to contract holders (interest assumed in life insurance policy reserve calculations) in life insurance segment results. The segment reported a $1 million profit in 2016, following losses of $2 million in 2015 and $5 million in 2014. Ithas averaged a profit of less than $1million over the past five years.
Earned premiums rose $19 million in 2016, primarily due to growth in our term life insurance business, as shown in the table below. Growth in 2015 was primarily due to term life insurance and universal life insurance.
(Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016-2015 2015-2014 2016 2015 2014 Change % Change % Term life insurance $ 149 $ 136 $ 131 10 4 Universal life insurance 37 39 35 (5 ) 11 Other life insurance, annuity and disability income products 42 34 32 24 6 Net earned premiums $ 228 $ 209 $ 198 9 6 We market term, whole and universal life products, fixed annuities and disability income products. Inaddition, weoffer term, whole and universal life and disability insurance to employees at their worksite. These products provide our property casualty agency force with excellent cross-serving opportunities for both commercial and personalaccounts.
Over the past several years, we have worked to maintain a portfolio of simple, yet competitive, products primarily under the LifeHorizons banner. Our product development efforts emphasize death benefit protection and guarantees. Distribution expansion within our property casualty insurance agencies remains ahigh priority. Our34life field marketing representatives work in partnership with our 138property casualty field marketing representatives. Approximately 62percent of our term and otherlife insurance product premiums were generated through our property casualty insurance agencyrelationships.
Life insurance segment expenses consist principally of:  Contract holders benefits incurred, related to traditional life and interest-sensitive products, accounted for 76.4percent of 2016 total benefits and expenses compared with 78.1percent in 2015 and 78.4percent in 2014. Total contract holders benefits increased as life policy reserves were higher in 2016, compared with 2015.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 79 Netdeath claims decreased slightly from 2015, and were below our mortality projections while remaining within our range of pricing expectations.
Underwriting expenses incurred, net of deferred acquisition costs, accounted for 23.6percent of 2016 total benefits and expenses compared with 21.9percent in 2015 and 21.6percent in 2014. Expenses in 2016increased 15 percent, more than the 9 percent growth in earned premiums, primarily due to increased operating expenses related to premium growth and technology initiatives. In 2015, the percentage increase for expenses was slightly less than growth earned premiums.
Life insurance segment profitability depends largely on premium levels, the adequacy of product pricing, underwriting skill and operating efficiencies. This segments results include only investment interest credited to contract holders (interest assumed in life insurance policy reserve calculations). The remaining investment income is reported in the investments segment results. The life investment portfolio is managed to earn target spreads between earned investment rates on general account assets and rates credited to policyholders. We consider the value of assets under management and investment income for the life investment portfolio as key performance indicators for the life insurance segment.
We seek to maintain a competitive advantage with respect to benefits paid and reserve increases by consistently achieving better than average claims experience due to skilled underwriting. Commissions paid by the life insurance operation are on par with industry averages.
We recognize that assets under management, capital appreciation and investment incomeare integral to evaluation of the success of the life insurance segment because of the long durationof life products. On a basis that includes investment income and realized gains or losses from lifeinsurance-related invested assets, our life insurance subsidiary reported net income of $48million in 2016, compared with net income of $41 million in 2015 and $39million in 2014. The life insurance subsidiary portfolio had after-tax net realized investment gains of $5million in 2016, compared with less than $1million in 2015 and $3 million in 2014. Realized investment gains and losses are discussed under Investments Results. We exclude most of our life insurance company investment income from investments segmentresults.
Life Insurance Outlook We view the life insurance market as having significant pockets of growth opportunities. The traditional life distribution system is in a state of mild disruption. The combination of low interest rates, new technology and historic low ownership rates provide us with ample room to grow our term focused life insurance book through our independent agency model.
To further capitalize on this disruption, we recently piloted a new term product that allows our property casualty agents to quickly market and sell life insurance to our personal lines customers using accelerated underwriting through a predictive model. We expect to expand this initiative in 2017 and will continue to look for ways to improve the overall buying experience that we believe has contributed to the decline in ownership rates.
We are implementing statutory principle-based reserves for our core term product in 2017. We expect that action will begin to give us the ability to better manage the economic capital that is currently supporting the statutory reserves for our term book of business. While many term writers have used a variety of captive reinsurance solutions to deal with this statutory issue, we chose to carry the full reserve amounts on our balance sheet. Thataction has resulted in tremendous balance sheet strength and GAAP equity growth. It also, however, has made it difficult to achieve high rates of return.
We are cautiously optimistic about the potential for corporate tax reform. Should significant reform be implemented, we believe that our product pricing would be more favorably impacted than the industry.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 80 Investments Results Overview  Three-Year Highlights Investments Results (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016-2015 2015-2014 2016 2015 2014 Change % Change % Total investment income, net of expenses $ 595 $ 572 $ 549 4 4 Investment interest credited to contract holders' (90 ) (86 ) (83 ) (5 ) (4 ) Realized investment gains, net 124 70 133 77 (47 ) Investments profit, pretax $ 629 $ 556 $ 599 13 (7 ) The investments segment contributes investment income and realized gains and losses to results of operations. Investments provide our primary source of pretax and after-tax profits.
Investment income  Pretax investment income grew $23 million, or 4percent, in 2016, with increases from interest and dividends contributing nearly equal dollar amounts. Dividend income reflected rising dividend ratesand net purchases of equity securities from available funds. Interest income also rose, as net purchases of fixed-maturity securities offset the continuing effects on bond yields of the low interest rate environment. Pretaxinvestment income also rose 4percent in 2015, reflecting increases in both dividend income and interest income. Average yields in the investment income table below are based on the average invested asset and cash amounts indicated in the table using fixed-maturity securities valued at amortized cost and all other securities at fair value.
Realized investment gains and losses  We reported realized investment gains in all three years, largely due to investment sales that were discretionary in timing and amount. Those gains were somewhat offset by OTTIcharges.
We believe it is useful to analyze our overall investment performance by using total investment return over several years. Total investment return considers changes in unrealized gains and losses, which are not included in net income, in addition to net investment income and realized investment gains and losses that are included in net income. Changes in unrealized gains and losses shown in the table below include other invested assets. Considering investment gains and losses, both realized and unrealized, over several years helps evaluate performance since gains and losses may experience typical variability during shorter periods of time.
The table below shows total return based on calculation assumptions that simplify cash flow timing that is commonly used in total return measures. This simplified calculation uses data shown in our consolidated financial statements or notes to those statements. Added to invested asset amounts from our consolidated balance sheets are 50 percent of annual amounts pertaining to invested asset categories included in net cash used in investing activities from our consolidated statements of cash flows. The cash flow amounts are reduced by realized gains on investments, with the net result reduced by 50 percent to represent estimated new cash invested during each respective year. All new cash is assumed to be invested at the midpoint of the year.
Total investment return of 8.5 percent in 2016 was significantly more than in 2015. The 2016 contribution from allthree components of total investment return was higher than in 2015. Investment income rose $23 million, realizedinvestment gains rose $54 million and the invested assets net change in unrealized gains and losses rose $1.150billion. Thebase component of the return calculation, annual average invested assets, was down less than 1percent in 2016. For 2015 compared with 2014, total investment return declined 7.7 percentage points. The return contribution from the combination of 2015 investment income realized investment gains was nearly offset by a negative contribution from the net change in unrealized gains and losses. The base component of the return calculation, annual average invested assets, was up 7percent in 2015.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 81 (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016-2015 2015-2014 2016 2015 2014 Change % Change % Invested assets beginning balance: Fixed maturities $ 9,650 $ 9,460 $ 9,121 2 4 Equity securities 4,706 4,858 4,375 (3 ) 11 Other invested assets 67 68 68 (1 ) 0 Invested assets beginning balance 14,423 14,386 13,564  6 Average acquisitions (dispositions), net 291 350 224 (17 ) 56 Annual average invested assets $ 14,714 $ 14,736 $ 13,788  7 Total investment return: Total investment income, net of expenses $ 595 $ 572 $ 549 4 4 Total realized investment gains 124 70 133 77 (47 ) Total invested assets change in unrealized gains and losses 525 (625 ) 391 (184 ) nm Total $ 1,244 $ 17 $ 1,073 nm (98 ) Total return on invested assets before tax 8.5 % 0.1 % 7.8 % Investment Income The primary drivers of investment income were:  Interest income rose $12 million, or 3 percent, in 2016. The average fixed-maturity pretax yield declined by approximately 10 basis points but was offset by a larger average fixed-maturity portfolio that rose 5 percent on an amortized cost basis. Interest income also increased 3 percent in 2015 when that yield declined by approximately 6basis points while the portfolio rose 5 percent on an amortized cost basis.
Dividend income rose $11 million, or 7percent, in 2016, after rising 9 percent in 2015. Increases in dividend payment rates for most of the holdings in our common stock portfolio during both 2016 and 2015, plus a slight net increase in funds invested in that portfolio for both years, drove the increases in dividend income.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 82 (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016-2015 2015-2014 2016 2015 2014 Change % Change % Investment income: Interest $ 440 $ 428 $ 417 3 3 Dividends 161 150 138 7 9 Other 3 3 2 0 50 Less investment expenses 9 9 8 0 13 Investment income, pretax 595 572 549 4 4 Less income taxes 141 135 130 4 4 Total investment income, after-tax $ 454 $ 437 $ 419 4 4 Investment returns: Effective tax rate 23.8 % 23.6 % 23.7 % Average invested assets plus cash and cash equivalents $ 15,316 $ 14,515 $ 13,951 Average yield pretax 3.88 % 3.94 % 3.94 % Average yield after-tax 2.96 3.01 3.00 Fixed-maturity returns: Effective tax rate 27.3 % 27.1 % 27.0 % Average amortized cost $ 9,562 $ 9,098 $ 8,755 Average yield pretax 4.60 % 4.70 % 4.76 % Average yield after-tax 3.35 3.43 3.48 In 2016, we continued to invest available cash flow in both fixed income and equity securities in a manner that we believe balances current income needs with longer-term invested asset growth goals. While our bond portfolio more than covers our insurance reserve liabilities, we believe our diversified common stock portfolio of mainly blue chip, dividend-paying companies represents one of our best investment opportunities for the long term. We position our portfolio with consideration to both the challenges presented by the current low interest rate environment and the risks presented by potential future inflation. As bonds in our generally laddered portfolio mature or are called over the near term, we will be challenged to replace their current yield. The table below summarizes pretax yield to amortized costs excluding any book value adjustments due to impairment for bonds in our fixed-maturity portfolio by various maturity periods.
At December 31, 2016 % Yield Principal redemptions Fixed-maturity yield profile: Expected to mature during 2017 4.70 % $ 649 Expected to mature during 2018 5.67 977 Expected to mature during 2019 6.22 785 Average yield and total expected redemptions from 2017 through 2019 5.59 $ 2,411 Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 83 The average pretax yield of 3.75 percent for fixed-maturity securities acquired during 2016, shown in the table below, was lower than the 4.54 percent average yield-to-amortized cost of the fixed-maturity securities portfolio at the end of 2016.
Years ended December 31, 2016 2015 Average pretax yield-to-amortized cost on new fixed-maturities: Acquired taxable fixed-maturities 4.11 % 4.48 % Acquired tax-exempt fixed-maturities 3.04 3.34 Average total fixed-maturities acquired 3.75 4.00 We discussed our portfolio strategies in Item1, Investments Segment. Wediscuss risks related to our investment income and our fixed-maturity and equity investment portfolios in Item 7a, Quantitative andQualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.
Net Realized Investment Gains and Losses Net realized investment gains and losses are made up of gains or losses from the disposal of securities, changes in the valuation of embedded derivatives within certain convertible securities and OTTI charges from impaired securities. The factors we consider when evaluating impairments are discussed in Critical Accounting Estimates, Asset Impairment.
Investment gains or losses are recognized upon the sales of investments or as otherwise required under GAAP. The timing of realized gains or losses from sales can have a material effect on results in any given period. However,such gains or losses usually have little, if any, effect on total shareholders equity because most equity and fixed-maturity investments are carried at fair value, with the unrealized gain or loss included as a component of other comprehensive income.
Asappropriate, we buy, hold or sell both fixed-maturity and equity securities on an ongoing basis to help achieve our portfolio objectives. We generally purchase fixed-maturity securities with the intention to hold until maturity. Ifthey no longer meet our investment criteria, they are divested. Sales of fixed-maturity securities are usually due to a change in credit fundamentals. Pretax realized investment gains in the past three years largely were due to the sale of equity holdings.
Net realized investment gains and losses totaling $124 million for the year ended December 31, 2016, included:  $99 million in net realized gains from equity security sales.
$25 million in net realized gains from fixed-maturity security sales and calls.
$2 million in other net realized gains.
$2 million in OTTI charges to write down four holdings of equity and fixed-maturity securities.
The $70 million net realized investment gains and lossesin 2015 were primarily due to $103 million in net realized gains from equity security sales and $18 million from fixed-maturity security sales and calls, partially offset by $52million of OTTI charges for six securities.
In2014, the $133 million net realized investment gains and losses were primarily due to $136 million in net realized gains from equity security sales and $18 million from fixed-maturity security sales and calls, partially offset by $24million of OTTI charges for six securities.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 84 OTTI charges from the investment portfolio by the asset classes we described in Item 1, Our Segments, Investments Segment, are summarized below: (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Taxable fixed maturities: Impairment amount $ 2 $ 18 $ 15 New amortized cost $ 1 $ 9 $ 22 Percent to total amortized cost owned  %  %  % Number of securities other-than-temporarily impaired 2 2 1 Percent to number of securities owned  %  %  % Tax-exempt fixed maturities: Impairment amount $  $  $  New amortized cost $ 1 $  $  Percent to total amortized cost owned  %  %  % Number of securities other-than-temporarily impaired 2 1 1 Percent to number of securities owned  %  %  % Common equities: Impairment amount $  $ 33 $ 9 New cost $  $ 43 $ 79 Percent to total cost owned  % 2 % 3 % Number of securities other-than-temporarily impaired  14 4 Percent to number of securities owned  % 21 % 6 % Nonredeemable preferred equities: Impairment amount $  $ 1 $  New cost $  $ 19 $  Percent to total cost owned  % 10 %  % Number of securities other-than-temporarily impaired  3  Percent to number of securities owned  % 8 %  % Totals: Impairment amount $ 2 $ 52 $ 24 New cost or amortized cost $ 2 $ 71 $ 101 Percent to total cost or amortized cost owned  % 1 % 1 % Number of securities other-than-temporarily impaired 4 20 6 Percent to number of securities owned  % 1 %  % Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 85 OTTI charges from the investment portfolio by industry are summarized asfollows: (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Fixed maturities: Basic industry $  $ 18 $ 15 Utilities 2   Total fixed maturities 2 18 15 Common equities: Consumer staples   6 Energy  33 3 Total common equities  33 9 Nonredeemable preferred equities: Financials  1  Total nonredeemable preferred equities  1  Total $ 2 $ 52 $ 24 Investments Outlook Despite a rise in interest rates near the end of 2016, yields remain below both long-term market averages in general and our embedded portfolio yield specifically. For at least the near term, this is likely to continue to exert pressure on investment income growth.
We continue to focus on portfolio strategies to balance near-term income generation and long-term book value growth. In 2017, we expect to continue to allocate a portion of cash available for investment to equity securities, taking into consideration corporate liquidity and income requirements, as well as insurance department regulations and rating agency comments. We discuss our portfolio strategies in Item 1, Our Segments, Investments Segment.
We believe that a reversal of the slow but steady improvement in economic conditions could heighten the risk of renewed pressure on securities markets, which could lead to additional OTTI charges. Our asset impairment committee continues to monitor the investment portfolio. The current asset impairment policy is described in Critical Accounting Estimates, Asset Impairment.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 86 Other Total revenues in 2016 for our Other operations increased, compared with 2015, primarily due to earned premiums from our Cincinnati Re reinsurance assumed operations that began in 2015. Other also includes noninvestment operations of the parent company and its commercial leasing and financial services subsidiary, CFCInvestment Company. Total expenses for Other also increased in 2016, primarily due to losses and loss expenses and underwriting expenses from our Cincinnati Re operations.
Other loss in the table below represents losses before income taxes. For each year shown, Otherloss was largely driven by interest expense from debt of the parent company. The net result of Cincinnati Re was an underwriting profit of approximately $8 million in 2016 and approximately $1 million in 2015.
(Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016-2015 2015-2014 2016 2015 2014 Change % Change % Interest and fees on loans and leases $ 4 $ 5 $ 6 (20 ) (17 ) Earned premiums 49 10  390 nm Other revenues 1 2 2 (50 ) 0 Total revenues 54 17 8 218 113 Interest expense 53 53 53 0 0 Loss and loss expenses 25 5  400 nm Underwriting expenses 16 3  433 nm Operating expenses 12 13 14 (8 ) (7 ) Total expenses 106 74 67 43 10 Other loss $ (52 ) $ (57 ) $ (59 ) 9 3 Taxes We had $221 million of income tax expense in 2016 compared with $247 million in 2015 and $196million in 2014. Our corporateeffective tax rate for 2016 was 27.2percent compared with 28.0percent in 2015 and 27.2percent in2014.
The change in our effective tax rate was primarily due to changes in pretax income from underwriting results and realized investment gains and losses, with immaterial changes in the amount of permanent book-tax differences.
Historically, we have pursued a strategy of investing some portion of cash flow in tax-advantaged fixed-maturity and equity securities to minimize our overall tax liability and maximize after-tax earnings. See Item 1, Our Segments, Tax-Exempt Fixed Maturities, for further discussion on municipal bond purchases in our fixed-maturity investment portfolio. For our property casualty insurance subsidiaries, approximately 85percent of interest from tax-advantaged fixed-maturity investments and approximately 60 percent of dividends from qualified equities are exempt from federal tax afterapplying proration from the 1986 Tax Reform Act. Our noninsurance companies own an immaterial amount of tax-advantaged fixed-maturity investments. For our noninsurance companies, the dividend received deduction exempts 70percent of dividends from qualified equities. Our life insurance company does not own tax-advantaged, fixed maturity investments or equities subject to the dividend received deduction. Our effective tax rate reconciliation is found in Item 8, Note 11 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 87 Liquidity and Capital Resources We seek to maintain prudent levels of liquidity and financial strength for the protection of our policyholders, creditors and shareholders. We manage liquidity at two levels to meet the short- and long-term cash requirements of business obligations and growth needs. The first is the liquidity of the parent company. Thesecond is the liquidity of our insurance subsidiary. Management of liquidity at both levels is essential because each has different funding needs and sources, and each is subject to certain regulatory guidelines and requirements.
Parent Company Liquidity At December 31, 2016, the parent company had $2.133billion in cash and marketable securities, providing strong liquidity to fund cash outflows, as needed. The payment of dividends to shareholders is largely based upon receiving subsidiary dividends. Alternatively, we could sell investments or use our line of credit to support the dividend payment.
The parent companys primary sources of cash inflows are dividends from our insurance subsidiary, investment income and sale proceeds from investments. Theparent companys cash outflows are primarily interest and principal payments on long- and short-term debt, dividends to shareholders, common stock repurchases and general operating expenses. The table below shows a summary, by the direct cash flow method, of the major sources and uses of cash flow of the parentcompany.
(Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Sources of liquidity: Insurance subsidiary dividends received $ 475 $ 447 $ 400 Investment income received 56 53 46 Proceeds from stock options exercised 21 24 22 Uses of liquidity: Shareholders' dividend payments $ 306 $ 366 $ 278 Debt interest payments 52 52 52 Share repurchases 39 53 21 Short-term debt repayment   55 Pension contribution 13 5 5 Dividends received from the subsidiary in 2016 were $28 million more than 2015, supported by strong property casualty insurance subsidiary net cash flow from operating activities. We expect 2017 parent company sources of cash flows to be similar to 2016. Themajority of expenditures for the parent company have been consistent during the last three years, and we expect future expenditures to remain fairly stable. Share repurchases are discretionary, depending on cash availability and capital management decisions.
Insurance Subsidiary Liquidity The parent companys insurance subsidiary is largely the operations of the property casualty segments. Theprimary sources of cash inflows are collection of premiums, investment income, maturity of fixed-income securities and sale proceeds from investments. Property casualty insurance premiums generally are received before losses are paid under the policies purchased with those premiums. Cash outflows are primarily loss and loss expenses, commissions, salaries, taxes, operating expenses and investment purchases. Over the three-year period ended December 31, 2016, premium receipts and investment income have been more than sufficient to pay claims and operating expenses. Excess cash flows were partially used to pay dividends to the parent company. We are not aware of any known trends that would materially change historical cash flow results other than fluctuations in catastrophe claims and other large losses either individually or inaggregate.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 88 The table below shows a summary of operating cash flow for property casualty insurance (direct method). Historically, annual variation in operating cash flow has been largely related to changes in amounts of catastrophelosses.
(Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Premiums collected $ 4,466 $ 4,379 $ 4,147 Loss and loss expenses paid (2,503 ) (2,349 ) (2,413 ) Commissions and other underwriting expenses paid (1,375 ) (1,306 ) (1,239 ) Cash flow from underwriting 588 724 495 Investment income received 397 379 371 Cash flow from operations $ 985 $ 1,103 $ 866 Other Sources of Liquidity Cash in excess of operating requirements is invested in fixed-maturity and equity securities. Cash generated from investment income provides an important investment contribution to cash flow and liquidity. The sale of investments could provide an additional source of liquidity at either the parent company or insurance subsidiary level, ifrequired. In addition to possible sales of investments, proceeds of call or maturities of fixed-maturity securities also can provide liquidity. During the five-year period beginning in 2017, fair value of $3.604 billion, or 35.7percent, of our fixed-maturity portfolio is scheduled to mature. At year-end 2016, total unrealized gains in the investment portfolio, before deferred income taxes, were $2.625billion. Liquidity sourced from our investment portfolio is not materially at risk from European-based securities. At the end of 2016 this totaled $314million on a fair value basis, or 2.0percent of our total investments. We own no European sovereign debt. Our European-based securities are summarized by country in Item 7A, Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risk.
Financial resources of the parent company also could be made available to our insurance subsidiaries, ifcircumstances required. This flexibility would include our ability to access the capital markets and short-term bankborrowings. We generally have minimized our reliance on debt financing although we may use the line of credit to fund short-term cash needs.
Long-Term Debt We provide details of our three long-term notes in Item 8, Note 8 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Noneofthe notes are encumbered by rating triggers. The total principal amount of our long-term debt at December31,2016, was $793 million and included:  $28 million aggregate principal amount of 6.900% senior debentures due 2028.
$391 million aggregate principal amount of 6.920% senior debentures due 2028.
$374 million aggregate principal amount of 6.125% senior debentures due 2034.
The companys senior debt is rated investment grade by independent rating firms. None of the four rating agencies made changes to our debt ratings in 2016. Ourdebt ratings at February 22, 2017, were: a- from A.M. Best, A from Fitch Ratings, A3 from Moodys Investors Service and BBB+ from Standard & Poors.
Short-Term Debt At December 31, 2016, we had a $225 million line of credit with commercial banks, with$20million borrowed. Thatline of credit had a $35 million balance at December31, 2015. During 2016, we repaid $15 million as part of routine cash management. Access to this line of credit requires compliance with various covenants, including maintaining a minimum consolidated net worth and not exceeding a 30percent debt-to-total capital ratio, as defined by the agreement. At December 31, 2016, we had approximately $1.0 billion in net worth compared with our covenant net worth requirement. We are considerably within compliance with all covenants under the credit agreement, and believe we will remain in compliance. Thecredit agreement provides alternative interest charges based on the type of borrowing and our debtrating. The interest rate charged is adjusted LIBOR plus an applicable margin.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 89 The $225 million unsecured revolving line of credit is administered by PNC Bank, N.A., a subsidiary of The PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (NYSE:PNC). The agreement was established in 2012, extended for two years in 2014, and will expire in May 2019. Our subsidiary CFCInvestment Company also is a borrower underthis line of credit. PNC Bank is the lead participant bookrunner with a $65million share. Fifth Third Bancorp (Nasdaq:FITB) is the syndication agent with a $65 million share. U.S.Bancorp (NYSE:USB), BB&T Corp (NYSE:BBT) and Huntington Bancshares, Inc. (Nasdaq:HBAN) each provide $25million ofcapacity, and Northern Trust Corporation (Nasdaq:NTRS), provides $20 million of capacity.
Capital Resources Capital resources consisting of shareholders equity and total debt represent our overall financial strength to supportcurrent obligations and growth in our insurance businesses. At December 31, 2016, we had total capital of $7.867billion. Shareholders equity was $7.060 billion, an increase of $633million, or 10 percent, from the prior year. Our total debt was $807 million, down $14 million from a year ago. We seek to maintain a solid financial position and providecapital flexibility by keeping our ratio of debt to total capital moderate. Wetarget a ratio below 20percent. Atyear-end 2016, the ratio was 10.3percent, compared with 11.3 percent at year-end 2015.
At the discretion of the board of directors, the company can return capital directly to shareholders as discussedbelow.
Dividends to shareholders The ability of our company to continue paying cash dividends is subject to factors the board of directors deem relevant. While the board and management believe there is merit to sustaining the companys long record of dividend increases, our first priority is the companys financial strength. Over the past 10 years, the company has paid an average of 66percent of net income as dividends. Through 2016, the board had increased our cash dividend for 56 consecutive years. The board decision in January 2017 to increase the dividend demonstrated confidence in the companys strong capital, liquidity, financial flexibility and initiatives to grow earnings.
Common stock repurchase  Generally, our board believes that share repurchases can help fulfill our commitment to enhancing shareholder value. Consequently, the board has authorized the repurchase of outstanding shares, giving management discretion to purchase shares at reasonable prices in light of circumstances at the time of purchase. Our approach since mid-2008 has been to hold capital adequate to support future growth of our insurance operations and repurchase a minimal amount of shares. Thoserepurchases were intended to partially offset the issuance of shares through equity compensation plans, primarily due to vesting of service-based restricted stock units of equity awards granted in the past. Our corporate Code of Conduct restricts repurchases during certain time periods. Thedetails of the repurchase authorizations and activity are described in Item5, Market for the Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 90 Obligations We pay obligations to customers, suppliers and associates in the normal course of our business operations. Someare contractual obligations that define the amount, circumstances and/or timing of payments. We have other commitments for business expenditures; however, the amount, circumstances and/or timing of our other commitments are not dictated by contractual arrangements.
Contractual Obligations At December 31, 2016, we estimated our future contractual obligations as follows: (Dollars in millions) Year Years Years There- Payment due by period 2017 2018-2019 2020-2021 after Total Gross property casualty loss and loss expense payments $ 1,707 $ 1,632 $ 695 $ 1,001 $ 5,035 Gross life policyholder obligations 87 117 163 5,075 5,442 Interest on long-term debt 52 104 104 475 735 Long-term debt    793 793 Short-term debt 20    20 Profit-sharing commissions 130    130 Capital lease obligations 12 17 8 2 39 Other liabilities 25 31 5 14 75 Total $ 2,033 $ 1,901 $ 975 $ 7,360 $ 12,269 Other Commitments At December 31, 2016, we believe our most significant other commitments were:  Commissions  We expect commission payments to generally track with written premiums.
Other operating expenses  Many of our operating expenses are not contractual obligations but reflect theongoing expenses of our business. For example, weanticipate capitalizing development costs for approximately $6 million in spending for key technology initiatives in 2017, compared with actual capitalization totaling $8million in 2016 and $6million in 2015. Theseactivities are conducted at our discretion, and we have no material contractual obligations for activities planned as part of these projects.
Other invested assets  We may invest up to $27 million in private equity investments over the next four years.
Liquidity and Capital Resources Outlook At December31,2016, we had $777 million in cash and cash equivalents. During 2017, our insurance subsidiary can declare $469 million in dividends to our parent company without regulatory approval. That strong liquidity and our consistent cash flows give us the flexibility to meet current obligations and commitments while building value by prudently investing where we see potential for both current income and long-term return. Our cash provides adequate financial cushion when short-term operating results do not meet our objectives.
A long-term perspective governs our liquidity and capital resources decisions, with the goal of benefiting ourpolicyholders, agents, shareholders and associates over time. Our underwriting philosophy and initiatives can drive performance to achieve our underwriting profitability target of a GAAP combined ratio over any five-year period that consistently averages within the range of 95 percent to 100percent. Our GAAP combined ratio averaged 94.3percent over the five-year period 2012 through 2016, resulting in strong underwriting profits.
In any year, we consider the most likely source of pressure on liquidity would be an unusually high level of catastrophe loss payments within a short period of time. There could be additional obligations for our insurance operations due to increasing severity or frequency of noncatastrophe claims. To address the risk of unusually large insurance loss obligations including catastrophe events, we maintain property casualty reinsurance contracts with highly rated reinsurers, as discussed under 2017 Reinsurance Ceded Programs. Wealso monitor the financial condition of our reinsurers because their insolvency could jeopardize a portion of our $545million reinsurance recoverable asset at December31,2016. Parent-company liquidity could also be constrained by Ohio regulatory requirements that restrict the dividends insurance subsidiaries can pay.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 91 Economic weakness also has the potential to affect our liquidity and capital resources in a number of different ways, including delinquent payments from agencies, defaults on interest payments by fixed-maturity holdings in our portfolio, dividend reductions by holdings in our equity portfolio or declines in the market value of holdings in ourportfolio.
Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements We do not use any special-purpose financing vehicles or have any undisclosed off-balance-sheet arrangements (as that term is defined in applicable SEC rules) that are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on the companys financial condition, results of operation, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 92 Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Obligations and Reserves Our estimate of future gross property casualty loss and loss expense payments of $5.035 billion is lower than loss and loss expense reserves of $5.085 billion reported on our balance sheet at December 31, 2016. The $50million difference is due to certain life and health loss reserves. Reserving practices are discussed in Critical Accounting Estimates, PropertyCasualty Insurance Loss and Loss Expense Reserves.
For the business lines in the commercial and personal lines insurance segments, and in total for the excess and surplus lines insurance segment, the following table details gross reserves among case, IBNR and loss expense reserves, net of salvage and subrogation. The $375 million increase in total gross reserves was primarily due to a $150million increase in case loss reserves and a $187 million increase in IBNR loss reserves. Totalgross reserves for our commercial casualty line of business rose $136 million, for our commercial auto line of business they rose $78million, for our commercial property line of business they rose $77million and for our personal auto line of business they rose $45million.
Property Casualty Gross Loss and Loss Expense Reserves (Dollars in millions) Loss reserves Loss expense reserves Total gross reserves Case reserves IBNR reserves Percent of total At December 31, 2016 Commercial lines insurance: Commercial casualty $ 928 $ 553 $ 556 $ 2,037 40.5 % Commercial property 253 28 58 339 6.7 Commercial auto 374 86 103 563 11.2 Workers' compensation 382 553 95 1,030 20.4 Other commercial 116 19 75 210 4.2 Subtotal 2,053 1,239 887 4,179 83.0 Personal lines insurance: Personal auto 228 24 66 318 6.3 Homeowner 102 22 29 153 3.0 Other personal 46 47 5 98 2.0 Subtotal 376 93 100 569 11.3 Excess and surplus lines 94 86 61 241 4.8 Cincinnati Re 8 37 1 46 0.9 Total $ 2,531 $ 1,455 $ 1,049 $ 5,035 100.0 % At December 31, 2015 Commercial lines insurance: Commercial casualty $ 897 $ 462 $ 542 $ 1,901 40.8 % Commercial property 192 28 42 262 5.6 Commercial auto 330 66 89 485 10.4 Workers' compensation 389 549 91 1,029 22.1 Other commercial 139 17 92 248 5.3 Subtotal 1,947 1,122 856 3,925 84.2 Personal lines insurance: Personal auto 211 (7 ) 69 273 5.9 Homeowner 80 13 25 118 2.5 Other personal 52 50 5 107 2.3 Subtotal 343 56 99 498 10.7 Excess and surplus lines 91 80 56 227 4.9 Cincinnati Re  10  10 0.2 Total $ 2,381 $ 1,268 $ 1,011 $ 4,660 100.0 % Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 93 Asbestos and Environmental Loss and Loss Expense Reserves We carried $85 million of net loss and loss expense reserves for asbestos and environmental claims and $45million of reserves for mold claims at year-end 2016, compared with $84 million and $45 million, respectively, for such claims at year-end 2015. The asbestos and environmental claims amounts for each respective year constituted 1.8percent and 1.9percent of total net loss and loss expense reserves at these year-end dates.
We believe our exposure to asbestos and environmental claims is limited, largely because our reinsurance retention was $500,000 or below prior to 1987. We also were predominantly a personal lines company in the 1960s and 1970s, when asbestos and pollution exclusions were not widely used by commercial lines insurers. During the 1980s and early 1990s, commercial lines grew as apercentage of our overall business and our exposure to asbestos and environmental claims grew accordingly. Over that period, we endorsed to or included in most policies an asbestos and environmental exclusion.
Additionally, since 2002, we have revised policy terms where permitted by state regulation to limit our exposure to mold claims prospectively and further reduce our exposure to other environmental claims generally. Finally, we have not engaged in any mergers or acquisitions through which such a liability could have been assumed. Wecontinue to monitor our claims for evidence of material exposure to other mass tort classes such as silicosis, but we have found no such credible evidence to date.
Reserving data for asbestos and environmental claims has characteristics that limit the usefulness of the methods and models used to analyze loss and loss expense reserves for other claims. Specifically, asbestos and environmental loss and loss expenses for different accident years do not emerge independently of one another as loss development and Bornhuetter-Ferguson methods assume. In addition, asbestos and environmental loss and loss expense data available to date did not reflect a well-defined tail, greatly complicating the identification of an appropriate probabilistic trend family model. At year-end 2016, we used a weighted average of a paid survival ratio method and report year method to estimate reserves for IBNR asbestos and environmental claims. Our exposure to such claims is limited; we believe a weighted average of both methods produces a sufficient level of reserves.
Gross Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Payments While we believe that historical performance of property casualty and life loss payment patterns is a reasonable source for projecting future claim payments, there is inherent uncertainty in this estimate of contractual obligations. We believe that we could meet our obligations under a significant and unexpected change in the timing of these payments because of the liquidity of our invested assets, strong financial position and access to lines of credit.
Our estimates of gross property casualty loss and loss expense payments do not include reinsurancereceivables or ceded losses. Asdiscussed in 2017 Reinsurance Ceded Programs, we purchase reinsurance to mitigate our property casualty risk exposure. Ceded property casualty reinsurance unpaid receivables of $298million at year-end 2016 are an offset to our gross property casualty loss and loss expense obligations. Our reinsurance program mitigates the liquidity risk of a single large loss or an unexpected rise in claim severity or frequency due to a catastrophic event. Reinsurance does not relieve usof our obligation to pay covered claims. The financial strength of our reinsurers is important because ourability to recover losses under our reinsurance agreements depends on the financial viability of thereinsurers.
We direct our associates and agencies to settle claims and pay losses as quickly as is practical, and we made $2.503billion of netclaim payments during 2016. At year-end 2016, total net property casualty reserves of $4.738billion reflected $2.331billion in unpaid amounts on reported claims (case reserves), $1.011billion in loss expense reserves and $1.396billion in estimates of claims that were incurred but had not yet been reported (IBNR). Thespecific amounts and timing of obligations related to case reserves and associated loss expenses are not set contractually. The amounts and timing of obligations for IBNR claims and related loss expenses are unknown. Wediscuss our methods of establishing loss and loss expense reserves and our belief that reserves are adequate in Critical Accounting Estimates, Property Casualty Insurance Loss and Loss Expense Reserves.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 94 The historical pattern of using premium receipts for the payment of loss and loss expenses has enabled us to extend slightly the maturities of our investment portfolio beyond the estimated settlement date of the loss reserves. Theeffective duration of our consolidated property casualty fixed-maturity portfolio was 5.0 years at year-end 2016. Bycontrast, the duration of our loss and loss expense reserves was approximately 4.1years. We believe this difference in duration does not affect our ability to meet current obligations because cash flow from operations is sufficient to meet these obligations. In addition, investment holdings could be sold, if necessary, to meet higher than anticipated loss and loss expenses.
Range of Reasonable Reserves The company established a reasonably likely range for net loss and loss expense reserves of $4.449billion to $4.894 billion at year-end 2016, with the company carrying net reserves of $4.738 billion. The likely range was $4.125billion to $4.507 billion at year-end 2015, with the company carrying net reserves of $4.379billion. Our loss and loss expense reserves are not discounted for the time-value of money, but we have reduced the reserves by an estimate of the amount of salvage and subrogation payments we expect torecover.
The low point of each years range corresponds to approximately one standard error below each years mean reserve estimate, while the high point corresponds to approximately one standard error above each years mean reserve estimate. We discussed managements reasons for basing reasonably likely reserve ranges on standard errors in Critical Accounting Estimates, Reserve Estimate Variability.
The ranges reflect our assessment of the most likely unpaid loss and loss expenses at year-end 2016 and2015. However, actual unpaid loss and loss expenses could nonetheless fall outside of the indicatedranges.
Managements best estimate of total loss and loss expense reserves as of year-end 2016 and 2015 was consistent with the corresponding actuarial best estimate.
Development of Reserves for Loss and Loss Expenses We reconcile the beginning and ending balances of our reserves for loss and loss expenses at December31,2016, 2015 and 2014, in Item 8, Note 4 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. The reconciliation of our year-end 2015 reserve balance to net incurred losses one year later recognized $168million of favorable reserve development.
The table below shows the development of estimated reserves for loss and loss expenses for the past 10years.
Section A shows our total property casualty loss and loss expense reserves recorded at the balance sheet date for each of the indicated calendar years on a gross and net basis. Those reserves represent the estimated amount of unpaid loss and loss expenses for claims arising in the indicated calendar year and all prior accident years at the balance sheet date, including losses that were incurred but not yet reported to the company.
Section B shows the cumulative net amount paid with respect to the previously recorded reserve as of the end of each succeeding year. For example, as of December 31, 2016, we paid $2.556 billion of loss and loss expenses in calendar years 2007 through 2016 for losses that occurred in accident years 2006and prior. An estimated $341 million of losses remained unpaid as of year-end 2016 (netre-estimated reserves of $2.897billion from Section C less cumulative net paid loss and loss expenses of$2.556billion).
Section C shows the re-estimated amount of the previously reported reserves based on experience as of the end of each succeeding year. The estimate is increased or decreased as we learn more about the development of the related claims.
Section D, cumulative net reserve development, represents the aggregate change in the estimates for all years subsequent to the year the reserves were initially established. For example, reserves established at December31, 2006, had developed favorably by $459 million over 10 years, net of reinsurance, which was reflected in income over the 10 years. The table shows favorable reserve development as a negative number. Favorable reserve development on prior accident years, which represents a negative expense, is favorable to income. The One year later line in the table shows theeffects on income before income taxes in 2016, 2015 and 2014 of changes in estimates of the reserves for loss and loss expenses for all accident years. The effect was favorable to pretax income for those three years by $168million, $184million, and $98 million, respectively.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 95 In evaluating the development of our estimated reserves for loss and loss expenses for the past 10years, note that each amount includes the effects of all changes in amounts for prior periods. For example, payments or reserve adjustments related to losses settled in 2016 but incurred in 2010 are included in the cumulative deficiency or redundancy amount for 2010 and each subsequent year. In addition, this table presents calendar year data, not accident or policy year development data, which readers may be more accustomed to analyzing. Conditions and trends that affected development of reserves in the past may not necessarily occur in the future. Accordingly, it may not be appropriate to extrapolate future reserve development based on this data.
Differences between the property casualty reserves reported in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets (prepared in accordance with GAAP) and those same reserves reported in the annual statements (filed with state insurance departments in accordance with statutory accounting practices  SAP), relate principally to the reporting of reinsurance recoverables, which are recognized as receivables for GAAP and as an offset to reserves for SAP.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 96 Development of Estimated Reserves for Property and Casualty Loss and Loss Expenses (Dollar in millions) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 A. Originally reported reserves for unpaid loss and loss expenses: Gross of reinsurance $ 3,860 $ 3,925 $ 4,040 $ 4,096 $ 4,137 $ 4,280 $ 4,169 $ 4,241 $ 4,438 $ 4,660 $ 5,035 Reinsurance recoverable 504 528 542 435 326 375 356 299 282 281 298 Net of reinsurance $ 3,356 $ 3,397 $ 3,498 $ 3,661 $ 3,811 $ 3,905 $ 3,813 $ 3,942 $ 4,156 $ 4,379 $ 4,737 B. Cumulative net paid as of: One year later $ 1,006 $ 979 $ 994 $ 926 $ 1,035 $ 1,106 $ 1,127 $ 1,201 $ 1,197 $ 1,243 Two years later 1,547 1,523 1,529 1,511 1,663 1,717 1,822 1,872 1,911 Three years later 1,896 1,857 1,912 1,921 2,052 2,170 2,250 2,329 Four years later 2,096 2,102 2,174 2,188 2,330 2,434 2,531 Five years later 2,247 2,264 2,343 2,359 2,490 2,600 Six years later 2,360 2,371 2,455 2,461 2,596 Seven years later 2,437 2,443 2,523 2,541 Eight years later 2,484 2,491 2,580 Nine years later 2,522 2,537 Ten years later 2,556 C. Net reserves re-estimated as of: One year later $ 3,112 $ 3,074 $ 3,310 $ 3,357 $ 3,526 $ 3,509 $ 3,666 $ 3,844 $ 3,972 $ 4,211 Two years later 2,893 3,042 3,197 3,251 3,283 3,464 3,624 3,720 3,896 Three years later 2,898 3,005 3,124 3,076 3,279 3,437 3,540 3,684 Four years later 2,907 2,957 3,043 3,121 3,270 3,402 3,532 Five years later 2,900 2,925 3,073 3,115 3,239 3,398 Six years later 2,890 2,949 3,069 3,078 3,240 Seven years later 2,918 2,955 3,043 3,079 Eight years later 2,918 2,928 3,045 Nine years later 2,897 2,935 Ten years later 2,897 D. Cumulative net redundancy as of: One year later $ (244 ) $ (323 ) $ (188 ) $ (304 ) $ (285 ) $ (396 ) $ (147 ) $ (98 ) $ (184 ) $ (168 ) Two years later (463 ) (355 ) (301 ) (410 ) (528 ) (441 ) (189 ) (222 ) (260 ) Three years later (458 ) (392 ) (374 ) (585 ) (532 ) (468 ) (273 ) (258 ) Four years later (449 ) (440 ) (455 ) (540 ) (541 ) (503 ) (281 ) Five years later (456 ) (472 ) (425 ) (546 ) (572 ) (507 ) Six years later (466 ) (448 ) (429 ) (583 ) (571 ) Seven years later (438 ) (442 ) (455 ) (582 ) Eight years later (438 ) (469 ) (453 ) Nine years later (459 ) (462 ) Ten years later (459 ) Net reserves re-estimatedlatest $ 2,897 $ 2,935 $ 3,045 $ 3,079 $ 3,240 $ 3,398 $ 3,532 $ 3,684 $ 3,896 $ 4,211 Re-estimated recoverablelatest 509 496 532 435 360 417 366 300 268 283 Gross liability re-estimatedlatest $ 3,406 $ 3,431 $ 3,577 $ 3,514 $ 3,600 $ 3,815 $ 3,898 $ 3,984 $ 4,164 $ 4,494 Cumulative gross redundancy $ (454 ) $ (494 ) $ (463 ) $ (582 ) $ (537 ) $ (465 ) $ (271 ) $ (257 ) $ (274 ) $ (166 ) Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 97 Property Casualty Insurance Development of Estimated Reserves by Accident Year The following table shows net reserve changes at year-end 2016, 2015 and 2014 by property casualty segment and accident year: (Dollars in millions) Commercial Personal E&S Cincinnati lines lines lines Re Totals As of December 31, 2016 2015 accident year $ (64 ) $ (12 ) $ (15 ) $ (1 ) $ (92 ) 2014 accident year (41 ) 7 (7 )  (41 ) 2013 accident year (21 ) 2 (9 )  (28 ) 2012 accident year (2 ) (1 ) (2 )  (5 ) 2011 accident year (4 ) 1 (1 )  (4 ) 2010 accident year (2 ) 1   (1 ) 2009 and prior accident years 5 (2 )   3 (Favorable)/unfavorable $ (129 ) $ (4 ) $ (34 ) $ (1 ) $ (168 ) As of December31, 2015 2014 accident year $ (27 ) $ (20 ) $ (14 ) $  $ (61 ) 2013 accident year (41 ) 11 (10 )  (40 ) 2012 accident year (42 ) 4 (10 )  (48 ) 2011 accident year (7 ) 4 (2 )  (5 ) 2010 accident year 3 3 1  7 2009 accident year (11 ) 1   (10 ) 2008 and prior accident years (29 ) 2   (27 ) (Favorable)/unfavorable $ (154 ) $ 5 $ (35 ) $  $ (184 ) As of December31, 2014 2013 accident year $ (33 ) $ (15 ) $ (10 ) $  $ (58 ) 2012 accident year (7 )  (8 )  (15 ) 2011 accident year (9 ) (1 ) (6 )  (16 ) 2010 accident year  2 (5 )  (3 ) 2009 accident year (3 )    (3 ) 2008 accident year (9 )    (9 ) 2007 and prior accident years 4 2   6 (Favorable)/unfavorable $ (57 ) $ (12 ) $ (29 ) $  $ (98 ) Overall favorable development for consolidated property casualty reserves of $168 million in 2016 illustrated the potential for revisions inherent in estimating reserves, especially for long-tail lines such as commercial casualty and workers compensation. As noted in Critical Accounting Estimates, Key Assumptions Loss Reserving, our models predict that actual loss and loss expense emergence will differ from projections, and we do not attempt to monitor or identify such normal variations. The table in Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Obligations and Reserves shows reserves by segment and lines of business and the components ofgross reserves among case, IBNR and loss expense reserves.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 98 Favorable reserve development of $69million for our workers compensation line accounted for approximately 53percent of our commercial lines insurance segment net total in 2016, while favorable reserve development of $20million for our commercial casualty line of business accounted for approximately 16 percent. Our commercial auto line of business experienced $31 million of unfavorable reserve development on prior accident years recorded during 2016, and that 2016 measure for our personal auto line of business was also unfavorable at $18 million. Drivers of significant reserve development typically reflect loss emergence on known claims that was more favorable or less favorable than previously anticipated for various lines of business and are discussed below.
Commercial casualty  During 2016, we experienced favorable development on prior accident years in total for this line of business. However, results varied between component coverages and by accident year within coverage. For example, our commercial multi-peril liability coverage within commercial casualty experienced favorable results for some prior accident years and adverse development on other accident years to end the calendar year flat on all prior years combined.  Commercial umbrella coverage developed adversely for accident year 2007, but developed favorably for all prior years combined.
Workers compensation  We continue to see favorable reserve development, for all prior accident years in aggregate. During 2016, the trend for estimated payments to be made in future calendar years was stable compared to 2015. However, we continue to monitor this line closely, as a sudden increase in trend for future payments has a highly leveraged effect.
Commercial auto  Loss emergence continued to develop unfavorably during calendar year 2016. This line of business has been troublesome for the industry as a whole in recent years. As part of the U.S. economic recession of a few years ago, slowing business activity influenced our estimates of reserves for ultimate losses and loss expenses during that period. As the economy slowly recovered, we believe we have been slow to recognize some of the higher loss cost effects in current accident year reserve estimates for at least part of that period. As claims that occurred during that period have become more mature, paid and reported loss cost trends resulted in us increasing our estimated ultimate losses. Initiatives to improve profitability of our commercial auto line of business are discussed in Commercial Lines Insurance Results.
Personal auto  Loss emergence continued to develop unfavorably during calendar year 2016. Thisline of business is subject to many of the same cost pressures related to the economic slowdown as commercial auto. Initiatives to improve profitability of our personal auto line of business are discussed in PersonalLines Insurance Results.
In consideration of the datas credibility, we analyze commercial and personal umbrella liability reserves together and then allocate the derived total reserve estimate to the commercial and personal coverages. Consequently, all of the umbrella factors that contributed to commercial lines reserve development also contributed to personal lines reserve development through the other personal line, of which personal umbrella coverages are a part.
For the excess and surplus lines insurance segment, the table showing reserves by segment and lines of business in Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Obligations and Reserves, shows the components ofgross reserves among case, IBNR and loss expense reserves. Total gross reserves were up $14 million from year-end2015 primarily due to the increase in premiums and exposures for this segment, as we discussed in Excess and Surplus Lines Insurance Results. Favorable development during 2016 of $34 million for excess and surplus lines insurance segment reserves, shown in the table above, illustrates the potential for revisions inherent in estimating reserves.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 99 Life Insurance Policyholder Obligations and Reserves Gross Life Insurance Policyholder Obligations Our estimates of life, annuity and disability policyholder obligations reflect future estimated cash payments to be made to policyholders for future policy benefits, policyholders account balances and separate account liabilities. These estimates include death and disability income claims, policy surrenders, policy maturities, annuity payments, minimum guarantees on separate account products, commissions and premium taxes offset by expected future deposits and premiums on in-force contracts.
Our estimates of gross life, annuity and disability obligations do not reflect net recoveries from reinsurance agreements. Ceded life reinsurance receivables were $241 million at year-end 2016. As discussed in 2017Reinsurance Programs, we purchase reinsurance to mitigate our life insurance risk exposure. Atyear-end 2016, ceded death benefits represented approximately 40.5percent of our total gross policy face amounts inforce.
These estimated cash outflows are undiscounted with respect to interest. As a result, the sum of the cash outflows for all years of $5.442 billion (total of life insurance obligations) exceeds the liabilities recorded in life policy and investment contract reserves and separate accounts for future policy benefits and claims of $3.411 billion (total of life insurance policy reserves and separate account policy reserves). Separate account policy reserves make up all but $10 million of separate accounts liabilities.
We have made significant assumptions to determine the estimated undiscounted cash flows of these policies and contracts that include mortality, morbidity, timing of claims, future lapse rates and interest crediting rates. Dueto the significance of the assumptions used, the amounts presented could materially differ from actualresults.
Life Insurance Reserves Gross life policy reserves were $2.671 billion at year-end 2016, compared with $2.583 billion at year-end 2015. Theincrease was primarily due to reserves for traditional life insurance contracts. We establish reserves for traditional life insurance policies based on expected expenses, mortality, morbidity, withdrawal rates and investment yields, including a provision for uncertainty. Once these assumptions are established, they generally are maintained throughout the lives of the contracts. We use both our own experience and industry experience adjusted for historical trends in arriving at our assumptions for expected mortality, morbidity and withdrawal rates. We use our own experience and historical trends for setting our assumptions for expected expenses. We base our assumptions for expected investment income on our own experience adjusted for current economic conditions.
We establish reserves for our universal life, deferred annuity and investment contracts equal to the cumulative account balances, which include premium deposits plus credited interest less charges and withdrawals. Some of our universal life insurance policies contain no-lapse guarantee provisions. For these policies, we establish a reserve in addition to the account balance based on expected no-lapse guarantee benefits and expected policyassessments.
We regularly review our life insurance business to ensure that any deferred acquisition cost associated with the business is recoverable and that our actuarial liabilities (life insurance segment reserves) make sufficient provision for future benefits and related expenses.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 100 2017 Reinsurance Ceded Programs A single large loss or an unexpected rise in claims severity or frequency due to a catastrophic event is a risk to the company's liquidity and financial strength. In an effort to control such losses, we avoid marketing property casualty insurance in specific geographic areas and monitor our exposure in certain coastal regions. Anexample of this is the reduction in recent years of our homeowner policies in the southeastern U.S. coastal region. Loss exposures in that area had been identified as a major contributor to our catastrophe probable maximum lossestimates shown in the table below. Those estimates were subsequently reduced, in large part due to less exposure from southeastern U.S. homeowner policies. We also continually review aggregate exposures tohuge disasters and purchase reinsurance protection to cover these exposures. For business other than Cincinnati Re, we use the Risk Management Solutions (RMS) andApplied Insurance Research (AIR) models to evaluate exposures to a once-in-a-100-year and a once-in-a-250-year event tohelp determine appropriate reinsurance coverage programs. In conjunction with these activities, we also continue toevaluate information provided by our reinsurance broker. Examples include deterministic modeling of probable maximum loss contribution from growth in new geographic territories.
To help determine appropriate reinsurance coverage for hurricane, earthquake and tornado/hail exposures, for business other than Cincinnati Re we use the RMS and AIR models to estimate the probable maximum loss from a single event or multiple events occurring in a one-year period. The models are proprietary in nature, and the vendors that provide them periodically update the models, sometimes resulting in significant changes to their estimate of probable maximum loss. As of the end of 2016, both models indicated that a hurricane event represents our largest amount of exposure to losses. The table below summarizes estimated probabilities and the corresponding probable maximum loss from a single hurricane event occurring in a one-year period, and indicates the effect of such losses on consolidated shareholders equity at December 31, 2016. Net losses are net of reinsurance and incometaxes, and assume our 2017 reinsurance programs apply.
(Dollars in millions) RMS Model AIR Model Percent Percent Gross Net of total Gross Net of total Probability at December31, 2016 losses losses equity losses losses equity 2.0% (1 in 50 year event) $ 313 $ 72 1.0 % $ 316 $ 72 1.0 % 1.0% (1 in 100 year event) 499 78 1.1 454 76 1.1 0.4% (1 in 250 year event) 843 233 3.3 709 136 1.9 0.2% (1 in 500 year event) 1,178 449 6.4 909 257 3.6 The modeled losses according to RMS in the table are based on its RiskLink version 16.0catastrophe model and use a long-term storm catalog methodology. The modeled losses according to AIRin the table are based on its AIR Touchstone version 4.0 catastrophe model and use a long-term methodology. TheAIR storm catalog includes decades of documented weather events used in simulations for probable maximum loss projections.
Reinsurance mitigates the risk of highly uncertain exposures and limits the maximum net loss that can arise from large risks or risks concentrated in areas of exposure. Managements decisions about the appropriate structure of reinsurance protection and level of risk retention are affected by various factors, including changes in our underwriting practices, capacity to retain risks and reinsurance market conditions.
Reinsurance does not relieve us of our obligation to pay covered claims. The financial strength of our reinsurers is important because our ability to recover for losses covered under any reinsurance agreement depends on the financial viability of the reinsurer.
Currently participating on our standard market property and casualty per-risk and per-occurrence reinsurance ceded programs areHannover Reinsurance Company, Munich Reinsurance America, Partner Reinsurance Company of theU.S.and Swiss Reinsurance America Corporation, all of which had A.M. Best insurer financial strength ratings of A(Excellent) or better as of December 31, 2016. Our property catastrophe program is subscribed through a broker by reinsurers from the United States, Bermuda, Londonand the Europeanmarkets. The largest participant in our property catastrophe program, representing approximately 48percent of total participation, is the Lloyds of London placement that features numerous syndicates, with Amlin Underwriting Limited and the Catlin Syndicate taking the largest participations. Other primary participants in our property catastrophe program include Liberty Syndicate, R.J.Kiln & Company Limited, and Fidelis.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 101 The following table shows our five largest property casualty reinsurance receivable amounts by reinsurer atthe end of 2016and at the end of 2015. USAIG is a joint underwriting association of individual insurance companies that collectively functions as a worldwide aviation insurance market. We terminated our participation in theassociation after policy year 2002. Third Point Reinsurance is one of several reinsurers that Cincinnati Re transacts business with to cede part of its risk to unaffiliated reinsurance companies through retrocessions. The A.M. Best insurer financial strength ratings as of the end of the two most recent years are also shown for each of those reinsurers that are rated by Best.
(Dollars in millions) 2016 2015 Name of reinsurer Total receivable A.M. Best Rating Total receivable A.M. Best Rating USAIG $ 97 NA $ 98 NA Third Point Reinsurance 48 A- 31 A- Swiss Reinsurance America Corporation 46 A+ 53 A+ Michigan Catastrophic Claims Association 38 NA 39 NA General Reinsurance Corporation 36 A++ 31 A++ Primary components of the 2017 property and casualty reinsurance program are summarized below. The premium estimates below occurred near the beginning of each respective year, when direct written premiums that were subject to applicable reinsurance treaties were also estimated.
Property per risk treaty  The primary purpose of the property treaty is to provide capacity up to $25million, adequate for the majority of the risks we write. It also includes protection for extra-contractual liability coverage losses. We retain the first $10million of each loss. Losses between $10million and $25million are reinsured at 100percent. The 2017 ceded premium estimate was $18million, essentially unchanged from the 2016 estimate.
Property excess treaty  For 2017, we again purchased a property reinsurance treaty that provide an additional $25million in protection for property losses. This treaty, along with the property per risk treaty, provides a total of $50 million of protection. The 2017 ceded premium estimate was approximately $6million, essentially unchanged from the 2016 estimate.
Casualty per occurrence treaty  The casualty treaty provides capacity up to $25million. Similar to the propertytreaty, it provides sufficient capacity to cover the vast majority of casualty accounts we insure and also includes protection for extra-contractual liability coverage losses. We retain the first $10million of each loss. Lossesbetween $10million and $25 million are reinsured at 100percent. The 2017 ceded premium estimate was $12million, essentially unchanged from the 2016 estimate.
Casualty excess treaty  We purchase a casualty reinsurance treaty that provides an additional $45million in protection for certain casualty losses. This treaty, along with the casualty per occurrence treaty, provides a total of $70 million of protection for workers compensation, extra-contractual liability coverage and clash coverage losses, which would apply when a single occurrence involves multiple policyholders of The Cincinnati Insurance Companies or multiple coverages for one insured. The 2017 ceded premium estimate was approximately $3million, essentially unchanged from the 2016 estimate.
Property catastrophe treaty  To protect against catastrophic events such as wind and hail, hurricanes or earthquakes, we purchased property catastrophe reinsurance with a limit up to $600million. Losses from the same occurrence can now be aggregated into one limit over a 120-hour period and applied to the treaty towards recovery. Thetreaty contains onereinstatement provision. The 2017 ceded premium estimate was $39million, compared with a $41million estimate for 2016. We retain the first $100million of any loss, and a share of losses up to $600million, as indicated below:  5.0percent of losses between $100 million and $200 million  5.0percent of losses between $200 million and $300 million  5.0percent of losses between $300 million and $400 million  5.0percent of losses between $400 million and $600 million Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 102  Beginning in 2013 we added an alternative reinsurance structure to protect against certain catastrophic events, and a similar structure is in place for 2017 through 2019. For certain exposures in the United States, we arranged for the purchase of collateralized reinsurance funded through the issuance of collateralized risk-linked securities, known as catastrophe bonds.The catastrophe bond arrangements generally provide reinsurance coverage for specific types of losses in specific geographic locations. They are generally designed to supplement coverage provided under the property catastrophe treaty. Effective January 2017, we have a catastrophe bond arrangement providing up to $200million in earthquake reinsurance protection or $80 million in severe convective storm coverage or various combinations of those coverages. It expires in January 2019. The earthquake coverage is countrywide, excluding California, and the severe convective storm coverage territory is also countrywide, excluding Florida. The storm coverage provides loss recovery when storm losses for all events in aggregate exceed $190 million, after an $8 million deductible per event.
After reinsurance, and before any applicable benefit from our catastrophe bond, our maximum exposure to a catastrophic event that causes $600 million in covered losses in 2017 would be $125million, matching our retention for 2016. The largest catastrophe loss event in our history occurred during 2011 from a May20-27 storm system that included a tornado in Joplin, Missouri, and also significant losses from hail in the Dayton, Ohio, area. Ourlosses from that storm were estimated at December31,2016, to be $223million before reinsurance.
Individual risks with insured values in excess of $50 million, as identified in the policy, are handled through a different reinsurance mechanism. We typically reinsure property coverage for individual risks with insured values between $50 million and $85 million under an automatic facultative agreement. For risks with property values exceeding $85 million, we negotiate the purchase of facultative coverage on an individual certificate basis. Forcasualty coverage on individual risks with limits exceeding $25 million, facultative reinsurance coverage is placed on an individual certificate basis. For risks with casualty limits that are between $25 million and $27million, we sometimes forego facultative reinsurance and retain an additional $2 million of loss exposure.
Terrorism coverage at various levels has been secured in most of our reinsurance agreements. Thebroadest coverage for this peril is found in the property and casualty working treaties, the property per risk treaty and the casualty per occurrence treaty, which provide coverage for commercial and personal risks. Our property catastrophe treaty provides terrorism coverage for personal risks, and coverage for commercial risks with total insured values of $15million or less. For insured values between $15 million and $50 million, there also may be coverage in the property working treaty.
A form of reinsurance is also provided through The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 (TRIA). TRIA was originally signed into law on November26,2002, and extended on several occasions, including the most recent extension on January 12, 2015. TRIA provides a temporary federal backstop for losses related to the writing of the terrorism peril in property casualty insurance policies. Under regulations promulgated under this statute, insurers are required to offer terrorism coverage for certain lines of property casualty insurance, including property, commercial multi-peril, fire, ocean marine, inland marine, liability, aircraft and workers compensation. In the event of a terrorism event defined by TRIA, the federal government would reimburse terrorism claim payments subject to the insurers deductible. The deductible is calculated as apercentage of subject written premiums for the preceding calendar year. Our deductible in 2016 was $514million (20percent of 2015subject premiums), and we estimate it is $529million (20percent of 2016subject premiums) for2017.
Reinsurance protection for the companys surety business is covered under separate treaties with many of the same reinsurers that write the property casualty working treaties.
The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company has separate property and casualty reinsurance treaties for 2017 through its parent, The Cincinnati Insurance Company. Primary components of the treaties include:  Property per risk treaty  The property treaty provides limits up to $5 million, which is adequate capacity for the risk profile we insure. It also includes protection for extra-contractual liability coverage losses. Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters retains the first $500,000 of any policy loss. Losses between $500,000 and $5 million are reinsured at 100percent by The Cincinnati Insurance Company.
Casualty treaties  The casualty treaty is written on an excess of loss basis and provide limits up to $6million, which is adequate capacity for the risk profile we insure. A second treaty layer of $5million excess of $6 million is written to provide coverage for extra contractual obligations or clash exposures. The maximum retention for any one casualty loss is $1 million by Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters. Losses between $1 million and $6 million are reinsured at 100 percent by The Cincinnati Insurance Company.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 103  Basket retention  Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters has purchased this coverage to limit our retention to $1million in the event that the same occurrence results in both a property and a casualty loss.
Property catastrophe treaty  As a subsidiary of The Cincinnati Insurance Company, Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters is a named insured under our corporate property catastrophe treaty, and for our collateralized reinsurance funded through the issuance of catastrophe bonds.All terms and conditions of this reinsurance coverage apply to policies underwritten by Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters.
For property risks with limits exceeding $5 million or casualty risks with limits exceeding $6million, underwriters place facultative reinsurance coverage on an individual certificate basis.
Cincinnati Life, our life insurance subsidiary, purchases reinsurance under separate treaties with many of the same reinsurers that write the property casualty working treaties. Our corporate retention is $1 million on a single life. Formost of our core term life insurance line of business, we retain no more than a $500,000 exposure on a single policy, ceding the balance using excess over retention mortality coverage, and retaining the policy reserve. Because of the conservative nature of statutory reserving principles, retaining the policy reserve unduly depresses our statutory earnings and requires a large commitment of our capital. Effective November 1, 2015, we increased our retention to $1 million for issue ages up to 61 years on new term life insurance sales. For issue ages 61 years or older, our retention remains $500,000. For term life insurance business written prior to 2005, we retain 10percent to 25percent of each term policy, not to exceed $500,000, ceding the balance of mortality risk and policy reserve.
We also have catastrophe reinsurance coverage on our life insurance operations that reimburses us for covered net losses in excess of $9.5 million. Our recovery is capped at $75 million for losses involving our associates.
The following table shows our five largest life reinsurance receivable amounts by reinsurer atyear-end 2016 and 2015. The A.M. Best insurer financial strength ratings are also shown.
(Dollars in millions) 2016 2015 Name of reinsurer Total receivable A.M. Best Rating Total receivable A.M. Best Rating Swiss Re Life & Health America, Inc.
$ 84 A+ $ 89 A+ Lincoln National Life Insurance Company 40 A+ 42 A+ General Re Life Corporation 33 A++ 32 A++ Security Life of Denver Insurance Company 30 A 30 A Pacific Life Insurance Company 15 A+ 15 A+ Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 104 Safe Harbor Statement This is our Safe Harbor statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements in this report. Some of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in Item1A, Risk Factors.
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to:  Unusually high levels of catastrophe losses due to riskconcentrations, changes in weather patterns, environmental events, terrorism incidents or othercauses  Increased frequency and/or severity of claims or development of claims that are unforeseen at the time of policy issuance  Inadequate estimates, assumptions or reliance on third-party data used for critical accounting estimates  Declines in overall stock market values negatively affecting the companys equity portfolio and bookvalue  Domestic and global events resulting in capital market or credit market uncertainty, followed by prolonged periods of economic instability or recession, that leadto:  Significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of a particular security or group of securities and impairment of the asset(s)  Significant decline in investment income due to reduced or eliminated dividend payouts from a particular security or group of securities  Significant rise in losses from surety and director and officer policies written for financialinstitutions or other insured entities  Prolonged low interest rate environment or other factors that limit the companys ability to generate growth in investment income or interest rate fluctuations that result in declining values of fixed-maturity investments, including declines in accounts in which we hold bank-owned life insurance contractassets  Recession or other economic conditions resulting in lower demand for insurance products or increased paymentdelinquencies  Difficulties with technology or data security breaches, including cyberattacks, that could negatively affect our ability to conduct businessand our relationships with agents, policyholders and others  Disruption of the insurance market caused by technology innovations such as driverless cars that could decrease consumer demand for insurance products  Delays, inadequate data developed internally or from third parties, or performance inadequacies from ongoing development and implementation of underwriting and pricingmethods, including telematics and other usage-based insurance methods, or technology projects and enhancements expected to increase our pricing accuracy, underwriting profit and competitiveness  Increased competition that could result in a significant reduction in the companys premium volume  Changing consumer insurance-buying habits and consolidation of independent insurance agencies that could alter our competitive advantages  Inability to obtain adequate ceded reinsurance on acceptable terms, amount of reinsurance coverage purchased, financial strength of reinsurers and the potential for nonpayment or delay in payment by reinsurers  Inability to defer policy acquisition costs for any business segment if pricing and loss trends would lead management toconclude that segment could not achieve sustainableprofitability  Inability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends consistent with current or past levels  Events or conditions that could weaken or harm the companys relationships with its independent agencies and hamper opportunities to add new agencies, resulting in limitations on the companys opportunities for growth, suchas:  Downgrades of the companys financial strengthratings  Concerns that doing business with the company is toodifficult  Perceptions that the companys level of service, particularly claims service, is no longer a distinguishing characteristic in the marketplace  Inability or unwillingness to nimbly develop and introduce coverage product updates and innovations that our competitors offer and consumers expect to find in themarketplace  Actions of insurance departments, state attorneys general or other regulatory agencies, including a change to a federal system of regulation from a state-based system, that:  Impose new obligations on us that increase our expenses or change the assumptions underlying our critical accounting estimates  Place the insurance industry under greater regulatory scrutiny or result in new statutes, rules andregulations  Restrict our ability to exit or reduce writings of unprofitable coverages or lines of business Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 105  Add assessments for guaranty funds, other insurancerelated assessments or mandatory reinsurance arrangements; or that impair our ability to recover such assessments through future surcharges or other ratechanges  Increase our provision for federal income taxes due to changes in tax law  Increase our other expenses  Limit our ability to set fair, adequate and reasonablerates  Place us at a disadvantage in the marketplace  Restrict our ability to execute our business model, including the way we compensate agents  Adverse outcomes from litigation or administrativeproceedings  Events or actions, including unauthorized intentional circumvention of controls, that reduce the companys future ability to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of2002  Unforeseen departure of certain executive officers or other key employees due to retirement, health or othercauses that could interrupt progress toward important strategic goals or diminish the effectiveness of certain longstanding relationships with insurance agents and others  Events, such as an epidemic, natural catastrophe or terrorism, that could hamper our ability to assemble our workforce at our headquarters location Further, the companys insurance businesses are subject to the effects of changing social, global, economic and regulatory environments. Public and regulatory initiatives have included efforts to adversely influence and restrict premium rates, restrict the ability to cancel policies, impose underwriting standards and expand overall regulation. The company also is subject to public and regulatory initiatives that can affect the market value for its common stock, such as measures affecting corporate financial reporting and governance. Theultimate changes and eventual effects, if any, of these initiatives are uncertain.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 106 I TEM 7 A .Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About MarketRisk Introduction Market risk is the potential for a decrease in securities value resulting from broad yet uncontrollable forces such as inflation, economic growth, interest rates, world political conditions or other widespread unpredictable events. It is comprised of many individual risks that, when combined, create a macroeconomic impact. The company accepts and manages risks in its investment portfolio as part of the means of achieving portfolio objectives. Some of the risks are:  Political  the potential for a decrease in value due to the real or perceived impact of governmental policies orconditions  Regulatory  the potential for a decrease in value due to the impact of legislative proposals or changes in laws orregulations  Economic  the potential for a decrease in value due to changes in general economic factors (recession, inflation, deflation, etc.)  Revaluation  the potential for a decrease in value due to a change in relative value (change in market multiple) of the market brought on by general economic factors  Interest-rate  the potential for a decrease in value of a security or portfolio due to its sensitivity to changes (increases or decreases) in the general level of interest rates Company-specific risk is the potential for a particular issuer to experience a decline in value due to the impact of sector or market risk on the holding or because of issues specific to the firm:  Fraud  the potential for a negative impact on an issuers performance due to actual or alleged illegal or improper activity of individuals it employs  Credit  the potential for deterioration in an issuers financial profile due to specific company issues, problems it faces in the course of its operations or industry-related issues  Default  the possibility that an issuer will not make a required payment (interest payment or return of principal) on its debt. Generally this occurs after its financial profile has deteriorated (credit risk) and it no longer has the means to make its payments The investment committee of the board of directors monitors the investment risk management process primarily through its executive oversight of our investment activities. We take an active approach to managing market and other investment risks, including the accountabilities and controls over these activities. Actively managing these market risks is integral to our operations and could require us to change the character of future investments purchased or sold or require us to shift the existing asset portfolios to manage exposure to market risk within acceptable ranges.
Sector risk is the potential for a negative impact on a particular industry due to its sensitivity to factors that make up market risk. Market risk affects general supply or demand factors for an industry and affects companies within that industry to varying degrees.
Risks associated with the asset classes described in Item 1, Our Segments, Investments Segment, can be summarized as follows (H  high, A  average, L  low): Taxable fixedmaturities Tax-exempt fixedmaturities Common equities Nonredeemable preferred equities Political A H A A Regulatory A A A A Economic A A H A Revaluation A A H A Interest rate H H A H Fraud A L A A Credit A L A A Default A L A A Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 107 Our investment portfolio had no European sovereign debt holdings but did include a relatively small amount of other European-based securities. The December 31, 2016, fair value total of $314 million consisted of fixed-maturity securities. The table below summarizes amounts of our European exposure for those securities by country.
(Dollars in millions) Financial Nonfinancial Total Amortized Fair Amortized Fair Amortized Fair cost value cost value cost value Great Britain $ 27 $ 29 $ 49 $ 52 $ 76 $ 81 Netherlands 30 31 38 39 68 70 Germany 10 10 33 32 43 42 Belgium   27 30 27 30 Switzerland 13 13 7 7 20 20 Sweden 15 15 5 5 20 20 Spain 5 5 11 12 16 17 Ireland   12 13 12 13 Luxembourg   10 11 10 11 Italy   5 5 5 5 Denmark   5 5 5 5 Total $ 100 $ 103 $ 202 $ 211 $ 302 $ 314 Fixed-Maturity Securities Investments For investment-grade corporate bonds, the inverse relationship between interest rates and bond prices leads to falling bond values during periods of increasing interest rates. We address this risk by attempting to construct a generally laddered maturity schedule that allows us to reinvest cash flows at prevailing rates. Although the potential for a worsening financial condition, and ultimately default, does exist with investment-grade corporate bonds, we address this risk by performing credit analysis and monitoring as well as maintaining a diverse portfolio of holdings.
The primary risk related to high-yield corporate bonds is credit risk. A weak financial profile can lead to rating downgrades from the credit rating agencies, which can put further downward pressure on bond prices. Interest rate risk, while significant, is less of a factor with high-yield corporate bonds, as valuation is related more directly to underlying operating performance than to general interest rates. This puts more emphasis on the financial results achieved by the issuer rather than on general economic trends or statistics within the marketplace. We address this concern by analyzing issuer- and industry-specific financial results and by closely monitoring holdings within this assetclass.
The primary risks related to tax-exempt bonds are interest rate risk and political risk associated with the specific economic environment within the political boundaries of the issuing municipal entity. We address these concerns by focusing on municipalities general-obligation debt and on essential-service bonds. Essential-service bonds derive a revenue stream from municipal services that are vital to the people living in the area (water service, sewer service, etc.). Another risk related to tax-exempt bonds is regulatory risk or the potential for legislative changes that would negate the benefit of owning tax-exempt bonds. We monitor regulatory activity for situations that may negatively affect current holdings and our ongoing strategy for investing in these securities.
The final, less significant risk is our exposure to credit risk for a portion of the tax-exempt portfolio that has support from corporate entities. Examples are bonds insured by corporate bond insurers or bonds with interest payments made by a corporate entity through a municipal conduit or authority. Our decisions regarding these investments primarily consider the underlying municipal situation. The existence of third-party insurance is intended to reduce risk in the event of default. In circumstances in which the municipality is unable to meet its obligations, risk would be increased if the insuring entity were experiencing financial duress. Because of our diverse exposure and selection of higher-rated entities with strong financial profiles, we do not believe this is a material concern as we discuss in Item 1, Our Segments, Investments Segment.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 108 Interest Rate Sensitivity Analysis Because of our strong shareholders equity, long-term investment horizon and ability to hold most fixed-maturity investments to maturity, we believe the company is well positioned if interest rates were to rise. A higher rate environment would provide the opportunity to invest cash flow in higher-yielding securities, while reducing the likelihood of untimely redemptions of currently callable securities. While higher interest rates would be expected to increase the number of fixed-maturity holdings fair valued below 100percent of amortized cost, we believe lower fixed-maturity security values due solely to interest rate changes would not signal adecline in credit quality.
Our dynamic financial planning model uses analytical tools to assess market risks. Aspart of this model, the effective duration of the fixed-maturity portfolio is continually monitored by our investment department to evaluate the theoretical impact of interest rate movements.
The table below summarizes the effect of hypothetical changes in interest rates on fair value of our fixed-maturityportfolio.
(Dollars in millions) Effect from interest rate change in basis points -200 -100  100 200 At December31, 2016 $ 11,131 $ 10,603 $ 10,085 $ 9,577 $ 9,094 At December31, 2015 $ 10,585 $ 10,112 $ 9,650 $ 9,189 $ 8,748 The effective duration of the fixed-maturity portfolio was 5.0 years at year-end 2016, compared with 4.7years at year-end 2015. A100-basis-point movement in interest rates would result in an approximately 5.1 percent change in the fair value of the fixed-maturity portfolio. Generally speaking, the higher a bond is rated, the more directly correlated movements in its fair value are to changes in the general level of interest rates, exclusive of call features. The fair values of average- to lower-rated corporate bonds are additionally influenced by the expansion or contraction of credit spreads.
In the dynamic financial planning model, the selected interest rate change of 100 to 200 basis points represents our views of a shift in rates that is quite possible over a one-year period. The rates modeled should not be considered a prediction of future events as interest rates may be much more volatile in the future. Theanalysis is not intended to provide a precise forecast of the effect of changes in rates on our results or financial condition, nor does it take into account any actions that we might take to reduce exposure to suchrisks.
Equity Securities Investments Our equity portfolio is subject to a variety of risk factors encompassed under the umbrella of market risk. Generaleconomic swings influence the performance of the underlying industries and companies within those industries. Industry- and company-specific risks also have the potential to substantially affect the value of our portfolio. Our investment guidelines help address these risks by diversifying the portfolio and establishing parameters to help manage exposures.
The table below summarizes the effect of hypothetical changes in market prices on fair value of our equityportfolio.
(Dollars in millions) Effect from market price change in percent -30% -20% -10%  10% 20% 30% At December31, 2016 $ 3,734 $ 4,267 $ 4,801 $ 5,334 $ 5,867 $ 6,401 $ 6,934 At December31, 2015 $ 3,294 $ 3,765 $ 4,235 $ 4,706 $ 5,177 $ 5,647 $ 6,118 Our equity holdings represented $5.334 billion in fair value and accounted for approximately 89percent of the netunrealized gains and losses of the entire portfolio at year-end 2016. No holding had a fair value greaterthan 3.8percent of our $5.123 billion publicly traded common stock portfolio. We had 28 holdings among eightdifferent sectors each with a fair value greater than $100 million. See Item 1, Our Segments, Investments Segment and Item8, Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional details on our holdings.
The primary risks related to preferred stocks are similar to those related to investment grade corporate bonds. Rising interest rates adversely affect market values due to the normal inverse relationship between interest rates Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 109 and bond prices. Credit risk exists due to the subordinate position of preferred stocks in the capital structure. Weminimize this risk by primarily purchasing investment-grade preferred stocks of issuers with a strong history of paying a common stock dividend.
Application of Asset Impairment Policy As discussed in Item 7, Critical Accounting Estimates, Asset Impairment, our fixed-maturity and equity investment portfolios are evaluated differently for other-than-temporary impairments. The companys asset impairment committee monitors a number of significant factors for indications of investments fair valued below the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The application of our impairment policy resulted in OTTI charges that reduced ourincome before income taxes by $2 million in 2016, $52million in 2015 and $24 million in 2014. Impairments are discussed in Item7, Investments Results.
Weexpect the number of securities fair valued below 100percent of cost or amortized cost to fluctuate as interest rates rise or fall and credit spreads expand or contract due to prevailing economic conditions. Further, cost or amortized cost for some securities have been revised due to impairment charges recognized in prior periods. Atyear-end 2016, 784 of the 3,315 securities we owned were fair valued below 100percent of cost or amortized cost compared with 414 of the 3,163 securities we owned at year-end 2015and 223 of the 3,015 securities we owned at year-end 2014.
The 784holdings fair valued below cost or amortized cost at year-end 2016 represented 14.7percent of the investment portfolio and $82million in unrealized losses.
757 of these holdings were fair valued between 90percent and 100percent of cost or amortized cost. The value ofthese securities fluctuates primarily because of changes in interest rates. Thefair value of these 757securities was $2.205billion at year-end 2016, and they accounted for $72million in unrealizedlosses.
27 of these holdings were fair valued between 70percent and 90percent of cost or amortized cost. Thefair value ofthese holdings was $65 million, and they accounted for $10million in unrealized losses.
No securities had a fair value below 70percent of cost or amortized cost.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 110 The following table summarizes the length of time securities in the investment portfolio have been in a continuous unrealized loss position.
(Dollars inmillions) Lessthan12months 12monthsormore Total At December 31, 2016 Fair value Unrealized losses Fair value Unrealized losses Fair value Unrealized losses Fixed maturity securities: Corporate $ 733 $ 15 $ 189 $ 11 $ 922 $ 26 States, municipalities and political subdivisions 989 42   989 42 Government-sponsored enterprises 89 2 2  91 2 Commercial mortgage-backed 155 3   155 3 United States government 6    6  Subtotal 1,972 62 191 11 2,163 73 Equity securities: Common equities 103 9   103 9 Nonredeemable preferred equities 4    4  Subtotal 107 9   107 9 Total $ 2,079 $ 71 $ 191 $ 11 $ 2,270 $ 82 At December 31, 2015 Fixed maturity securities: Corporate $ 1,099 $ 63 $ 133 $ 33 $ 1,232 $ 96 States, municipalities and political subdivisions 47 1 22  69 1 Commercial mortgage-backed 103 2 2  105 2 Government-sponsored enterprises 100 2 127 4 227 6 Subtotal 1,349 68 284 37 1,633 105 Equity securities: Common equities 270 51   270 51 Nonredeemable preferred equities 35    35  Subtotal 305 51   305 51 Total $ 1,654 $ 119 $ 284 $ 37 $ 1,938 $ 156 Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 111 The following table summarizes our investment portfolio, classifying securities based on fair values relative to cost or amortized cost: (Dollars in millions) Number of issues Cost or amortized cost Fair value Gross unrealized gain (loss) Gross investment income At December31, 2016 Taxable fixed maturities: Fair valued below 70% of amortized cost  $  $  $  $  Fair valued at 70% to less than 100% of amortized cost 304 1,279 1,245 (34 ) 40 Fair valued at 100% and above of amortized cost 1,175 5,102 5,385 283 260 Investment income on securities sold in current year     27 Total 1,479 6,381 6,630 249 327 Tax-exempt fixed maturities: Fair valued below 70% of amortized cost      Fair valued at 70% to less than 100% of amortized cost 476 957 918 (39 ) 20 Fair valued at 100% and above of amortized cost 1,261 2,461 2,537 76 86 Investment income on securities sold in current year     7 Total 1,737 3,418 3,455 37 113 Common equities: Fair valued below 70% of cost      Fair valued at 70% to less than 100% of cost 3 112 103 (9 ) 2 Fair valued at 100% and above of cost 64 2,700 5,020 2,320 143 Investment income on securities sold in current year     3 Total 67 2,812 5,123 2,311 148 Nonredeemable preferred equities: Fair valued below 70% of cost      Fair valued at 70% to less than 100% of cost 1 4 4   Fair valued at 100% and above of cost 31 179 207 28 12 Investment income on securities sold in current year     1 Total 32 183 211 28 13 Portfolio summary: Fair valued below 70% of cost or amortized cost      Fair valued at 70% to less than 100% of cost or amortized cost 784 2,352 2,270 (82 ) 62 Fair valued at 100% and above of cost or amortized cost 2,531 10,442 13,149 2,707 501 Investment income on securities sold in current year     38 Total 3,315 $ 12,794 $ 15,419 $ 2,625 $ 601 At December31, 2015 Portfolio summary: Fair valued below 70% of cost or amortized cost 9 $ 76 $ 47 $ (29 ) $ 4 Fair valued at 70% to less than 100% of cost or amortized cost 405 2,018 1,891 (127 ) 66 Fair valued at 100% and above of cost or amortized cost 2,749 10,168 12,418 2,250 478 Investment income on securities sold in current year     30 Total 3,163 $ 12,262 $ 14,356 $ 2,094 $ 578 Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 112 I TEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Responsibility for Financial Statements We have prepared the consolidated financial statements of Cincinnati Financial Corporation and our subsidiaries for the year ended December31, 2016 , in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP).
We are responsible for the integrity and objectivity of these financial statements. The amounts, presented on an accrual basis, reflect our best estimates and judgment. These statements are consistent in all material aspects with other financial information in the Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our accounting system and related internal controls are designed to assure that our books and records accurately reflect the companys transactions in accordance with established policies and procedures as implemented by qualified personnel.
Our board of directors has established an audit committee of independent outside directors. We believe these directors are free from any relationships that could interfere with their independent judgment as audit committee members.
The audit committee meets periodically with management, our independent registered public accounting firm and our internal auditors to discuss how each is handling its respective responsibilities. The audit committee reports its findings to the board of directors. The audit committee recommends to the board the annual appointment of the independent registered public accounting firm. The audit committee reviews with this firm the scope of the audit assignment and the adequacy of internal controls and procedures.
Deloitte & Touche LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm, audited the consolidated financial statements of Cincinnati Financial Corporation and subsidiaries for the year ended December31, 2016 . Deloitte & Touche LLP met with our audit committee to discuss the results of its examination. They have the opportunity to discuss the adequacy of internal controls and the quality of financial reporting without management present.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 113 Managements Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting The management of Cincinnati Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls, designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). Thecompanys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that:  Pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;  Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and the directors of the company; and  Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, useor disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention of overriding controls. Accordingly, even effective internal control can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation. Further, because of changes in conditions, the effectiveness of internal control may vary overtime.
The companys management assessed the effectiveness of the companys internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2016 , as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. Managements assessment was based on the criteria established in the Internal Control  Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and was designed to provide reasonable assurance that the company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2016 . The assessment led management to conclude that, as of December31, 2016 , the companys internal control over financial reporting was effective based on thosecriteria.
The companys independent registered public accounting firm has issued an audit report on our internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2016 .
/S/ Steven J. Johnston Steven J. Johnston, FCAS, MAAA, CFA, CERA President and Chief Executive Officer /S/ Michael J. Sewell Michael J. Sewell, CPA Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President and Treasurer (Principal Accounting Officer) February 24, 2017 Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 114 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of Cincinnati Financial Corporation Fairfield, Ohio We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Cincinnati Financial Corporation and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December31, 2016 and 2015 , and the related consolidated statements ofincome, comprehensive income, shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the periodended December31, 2016 . Our audits also included the financial statement schedules listed in the Index at Item 15(c). We also have audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2016 , based on criteria established in Internal Control  Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company's management is responsible for these financial statements and financial statement schedules, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Managements Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and financial statement schedules and an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company's principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company's board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 115 In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, thefinancial position of the Cincinnati Financial Corporation and subsidiaries as of December31, 2016 and 2015 , and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December31, 2016 , in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedules, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein. Also, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2016 , based on the criteria established in Internal Control  Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
/S/ Deloitte & Touche LLP Cincinnati, Ohio February 24, 2017 Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 116 Cincinnati Financial Corporation and Subsidiaries Consolidated Balance Sheets (Dollars in millions except per share data) December 31, December 31, 2016 2015 Assets Investments Fixed maturities, at fair value (amortized cost: 2016$9,799; 2015$9,324) $ 10,085 $ 9,650 Equity securities, at fair value (cost: 2016$2,995; 2015$2,938) 5,334 4,706 Other invested assets 81 67 Total investments 15,500 14,423 Cash and cash equivalents 777 544 Investment income receivable 134 129 Finance receivable 51 62 Premiums receivable 1,533 1,431 Reinsurance recoverable 545 542 Prepaid reinsurance premiums 62 54 Deferred policy acquisition costs 637 616 Land, building and equipment, net, for company use (accumulated depreciation: 2016$237; 2015$459) 183 185 Other assets 198 154 Separate accounts 766 748 Total assets $ 20,386 $ 18,888 Liabilities Insurance reserves Loss and loss expense reserves $ 5,085 $ 4,718 Life policy and investment contract reserves 2,671 2,583 Unearned premiums 2,307 2,201 Other liabilities 786 717 Deferred income tax 865 638 Note payable 20 35 Long-term debt and capital lease obligations 826 821 Separate accounts 766 748 Total liabilities 13,326 12,461 Commitments and contingent liabilities (Note 16)   Shareholders' Equity Common stock, par value$2 per share; (authorized: 2016 and 2015500 million shares; issued: 2016 and 2015198.3 million shares) 397 397 Paid-in capital 1,252 1,232 Retained earnings 5,037 4,762 Accumulated other comprehensive income 1,693 1,344 Treasury stock at cost (201633.9 million shares and 201534.4 million shares) (1,319 ) (1,308 ) Total shareholders' equity 7,060 6,427 Total liabilities and shareholders' equity $ 20,386 $ 18,888 Accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 117 Cincinnati Financial Corporation and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Income (Dollars in millions except per share data) Years ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Revenues Earned premiums $ 4,710 $ 4,480 $ 4,243 Investment income, net of expenses 595 572 549 Realized investment gains, net 124 70 133 Fee revenues 15 13 12 Other revenues 5 7 8 Total revenues 5,449 5,142 4,945 Benefits and Expenses Insurance losses and contract holders' benefits 3,107 2,808 2,856 Underwriting, acquisition and insurance expenses 1,465 1,387 1,301 Interest expense 53 53 53 Other operating expenses 12 13 14 Total benefits and expenses 4,637 4,261 4,224 Income Before Income Taxes 812 881 721 Provision for Income Taxes Current 183 231 159 Deferred 38 16 37 Total provision for income taxes 221 247 196 Net Income $ 591 $ 634 $ 525 Per Common Share Net incomebasic $ 3.59 $ 3.87 $ 3.21 Net incomediluted 3.55 3.83 3.18 Accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 118 Cincinnati Financial Corporation and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Net Income $ 591 $ 634 $ 525 Other Comprehensive Income Change in unrealized gains and losses on investments, net of tax of $186, $(220) and $134, respectively 345 (405 ) 250 Amortization of pension actuarial gains and losses and prior service cost, net of tax of $6, $(2) and $(6), respectively 10 (4 ) (12 ) Change in life deferred acquisition costs, life policy reserves and other, net of tax of $(4), $4 and $2, respectively (6 ) 9 2 Other comprehensive income (loss) 349 (400 ) 240 Comprehensive Income $ 940 $ 234 $ 765 Accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 119 Cincinnati Financial Corporation and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Shareholders Equity (Dollars inmillions) Years ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Common Stock Beginning of year $ 397 $ 397 $ 397 Share-based awards    End of year 397 397 397 Paid-In Capital Beginning of year 1,232 1,214 1,191 Share-based awards (8 ) (7 )  Share-based compensation 23 20 19 Other 5 5 4 End of year 1,252 1,232 1,214 Retained Earnings Beginning of year 4,762 4,505 4,268 Net income 591 634 525 Dividends declared (316 ) (377 ) (288 ) End of year 5,037 4,762 4,505 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Beginning of year 1,344 1,744 1,504 Other comprehensive income (loss) 349 (400 ) 240 End of year 1,693 1,344 1,744 Treasury Stock Beginning of year (1,308 ) (1,287 ) (1,290 ) Share-based awards 36 41 37 Shares acquired - share repurchase authorization (39 ) (53 ) (21 ) Shares acquired - share-based compensation plans (13 ) (16 ) (19 ) Other 5 7 6 End of year (1,319 ) (1,308 ) (1,287 ) Total Shareholders' Equity $ 7,060 $ 6,427 $ 6,573 (in millions) Common Stock - Shares Outstanding Beginning of year 163.9 163.7 163.1 Share-based awards 1.0 1.3 1.3 Shares acquired - share repurchase authorization (0.5 ) (1.0 ) (0.5 ) Shares acquired - share-based compensation plans (0.2 ) (0.3 ) (0.4 ) Other 0.2 0.2 0.2 End of year 164.4 163.9 163.7 Accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 120 Cincinnati Financial Corporation and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Dollars inmillions) Years ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Cash Flows From Operating Activities Net income $ 591 $ 634 $ 525 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities: Depreciation and amortization 48 52 51 Realized investment gains, net (124 ) (70 ) (133 ) Share-based compensation 23 20 19 Interest credited to contract holders' 48 44 47 Deferred income tax expense 38 16 37 Changes in: Investment income receivable (5 ) (6 ) (2 ) Premiums and reinsurance receivable (113 ) (48 ) (60 ) Deferred policy acquisition costs (26 ) (18 ) (20 ) Other assets 34 (39 ) 19 Loss and loss expense reserves 367 233 174 Life policy reserves 102 101 119 Unearned premiums 106 119 106 Other liabilities 49 44 (11 ) Current income tax receivable/payable (35 ) (18 ) 2 Net cash provided by operating activities 1,103 1,064 873 Cash Flows From Investing Activities Sale of fixed maturities 15 43 26 Call or maturity of fixed maturities 1,511 1,199 1,019 Sale of equity securities 465 342 335 Purchase of fixed maturities (1,994 ) (1,722 ) (1,312 ) Purchase of equity securities (439 ) (493 ) (392 ) Investment in finance receivables (17 ) (14 ) (18 ) Collection of finance receivables 30 30 31 Investment in buildings and equipment, net (13 ) (10 ) (9 ) Change in other invested assets, net (14 ) 1 9 Net cash used in investing activities (456 ) (624 ) (311 ) Cash Flows From Financing Activities Payment of cash dividends to shareholders (306 ) (366 ) (278 ) Shares acquired - share repurchase authorization (39 ) (53 ) (21 ) Payments of note payable (15 ) (14 ) (55 ) Proceeds from stock options exercised 21 24 22 Contract holders' funds deposited 95 83 86 Contract holders' funds withdrawn (155 ) (148 ) (143 ) Excess tax benefits on share-based compensation 5 4 2 Other (20 ) (17 ) (17 ) Net cash used in financing activities (414 ) (487 ) (404 ) Net change in cash and cash equivalents 233 (47 ) 158 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 544 591 433 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year $ 777 $ 544 $ 591 Supplemental Disclosures of Cash Flow Information Interest paid $ 52 $ 52 $ 53 Income taxes paid 213 245 154 Noncash Activities Conversion of securities $ 4 $ 3 $ 7 Equipment acquired under capital lease obligations 20 20 12 Cashless exercise of stock options 13 16 19 Other assets and other liabilities 53 27  Accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 121 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements NOTE 1  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Nature of Operations Cincinnati Financial Corporation (CFC) operates through our insurance group and two complementary subsidiarycompanies.
The Cincinnati Insurance Company leads our insurance group that also includes two subsidiaries: The Cincinnati Casualty Company and The Cincinnati Indemnity Company. This group markets a broad range of standard market commercial and personal policies. The group focuses on delivery of quality customer service to our select group of 1,614 independent insurance agencies with 2,090 reporting locations across 41 states. In 2015, The Cincinnati Insurance Company began our reinsurance assumed operations, Cincinnati Re. Other subsidiaries of The Cincinnati Insurance Company include The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company, which markets life and disability income insurance and fixed annuities, and TheCincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company, which offers excess and surplus lines property casualty insurance products.
The two CFC complementary subsidiaries are CSU Producer Resources Inc., which provides insurance brokerage services to our independent agencies so their clients can access our excess and surplus lines insurance products, and CFCInvestment Company, which offers commercial leasing and financing services to our agents, their clients and other customers.
Basis of Presentation Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the parent and its wholly owned subsidiaries and are presented in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). Allintercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Our actual results could differ from those estimates.
Investments Our portfolio investments are primarily in publicly traded fixed-maturity, equity and short-term investments. Fixed-maturity investments (taxable bonds, tax-exempt bonds, redeemable preferred equities and commercial mortgage- backed securities) and equity investments (common and nonredeemable preferred equities) are classified as available for sale and recorded at fair value in the consolidated financial statements. The number of fixed-maturity securities with fair value below 100 percent of amortized cost can be expected to fluctuate as interest rates rise or fall. Because of our strong capital and long-term investment horizon, our general intent is to hold fixed-maturity investments until maturity, regardless of short-term fluctuations in fair values.
Impairment charges for fixed maturities are recorded for other-than-temporary declines in value if fair value is below amortized cost and, in the asset impairment committees judgment, the fair value is not expected to be recouped within a designated recovery period. Our invested asset impairment policy also states that fixed maturities below their amortized cost that the company (1)intends to sell or (2) more likely than not will be required to sell before recovery of their amortized cost basis are deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired (OTTI). The amortized cost of any such securities is reduced to fair value as the new cost basis, and a realized loss is recorded in the period in which it is recognized. When these twocriteria are not met, and the company believes that full collection of interest and/or principal is not likely, wedetermine the net present value of future cash flows by using the effective interest rate implicit in the security at the date of acquisition as the discount rate and compare that amount with the amortized cost and fair value of thesecurity. The difference between the net present value of the expected future cash flows and amortized cost of the security is considered a credit loss and recognized as a realized loss in the period in which it occurred. Thedifference between the fair value and the net present value of the cash flows of the security, the noncredit loss, is recognized in other comprehensive income as an unrealized loss. We had no fixed-maturity securities with a noncredit loss for the years ended 2016 and 2015 .
When determining OTTI charges for our equity portfolio, our invested asset impairment policy considers qualitative and quantitative factors, including facts and circumstances specific to individual securities; asset classes; the Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 122 financial condition of the issuer; changes in dividend payment; the length of time fair value had been less than cost; the severity of the decline in fair value below cost; the volatility of the security; and our ability and intent to hold each position until its forecasted recovery.
We include the noncredit portion of fixed-maturity OTTI charges and all other unrealized gains and losses on investments, net of taxes, in shareholders equity as accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI). Realizedgains and losses on investments are recognized in net income based on the trade date accountingmethod.
Included within our other invested assets are $31 million of life policy loans, $23 million of private equity investments and $27 million of real estate through direct property ownership and development projects in the United States for the year ended 2016. Life policy loans are carried at the receivable value. The private equity investments provide their financial statements to us and generally report investments on their balance sheets at fairvalue. We use the equity method of accounting for private equity investments.
Investment income consists mainly of interest and dividends. We record interest on an accrual basis and record dividends at the ex-dividend date. We amortize premiums and discounts on fixed-maturity securities using the effective interest method over the expected life of the security.
Fair Value Disclosures Fair value is defined as the exit price or the amount that would be (1) received to sell an asset or (2) paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between marketplace participants at the measurement date. When determining an exit price, we rely upon observable market data whenever possible. We primarily base fair value for investments in equity and fixed-maturity securities (including redeemable preferred stock and assets held in separate accounts) on quoted market prices or on prices from the companys nationally recognized pricing vendor, an outside resource that supplies global securities pricing, dividend, corporate action and descriptive information to support fund pricing, securities operations, research and portfolio management. The company obtains and reviews the pricing services valuation methodologies and related inputs and validates these prices by replicating a sample across each asset class using a discounted cash flow model. When a price is not available from these sources, as in the case of securities that are not publicly traded, we determine the fair value using various inputs including quotes from independent brokers. The fair value of investments not priced by the companys nationally recognized pricing vendor is less than 1 percent of the fair value of our total investmentportfolio.
For the purpose of ASC 825 disclosure, we estimate the fair value of our long-term senior notes on market pricing of similar debt instruments that are actively trading. We estimate the fair value of our note payable on the year-end outstanding balance because it is short term and tied to a variable interest rate. We estimate the fair value of liabilities for investment contracts and annuities using discounted cash flow calculations across a wide range of economic interest rate scenarios with a provision for our nonperformance risk. We estimate the fair value for policyholder loans on insurance contracts using a discounted cash flow model. Determination of fair value for structured settlements assumes the discount rates used to calculate the present value of expected payments are the risk-free spot rates plus an A3 rated bond spread for financial issuers at December31, 2016 , to account for nonperformance risk. See Note 3, Fair Value Measurements, for further details.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are highly liquid instruments that include liquid debt instruments with original maturities of less than three months. These are carried at cost, which approximates fair value.
Property Casualty Insurance The consolidated property casualty companies actively write property casualty insurance through independent agencies in 41 states. Our10largest states generated 61 percent and 62 percent of total earned premiums in 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Ohio, our largest state, accounted for 17 percent of total earned premiums in 2016 and 2015 . Illinois, Indiana, Georgia, NorthCarolina, Pennsylvania and Michigan each accounted for between 5 percent and 7 percent of total earned premiums in 2016 . Our largest single agencyrelationship accounted for less than 1 percent of our total property casualty earned premiumsin 2016 . Noaggregate agency relationship locations under a single ownership structure accounted for more than 4 percent of our total property casualty earned premiums in 2016 . We record revenues for installment charges as fee revenues in the consolidated statements of income.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 123 Property casualty written premiums are deferred and recorded as earned premiums on a pro rata basis over the terms of the policies. We record as unearned premiums the portion of written premiums that applies to unexpired policy terms. Expenses associated with successfully acquiring insurance policies  commissions, premium taxes and underwriting costs  are deferred and amortized over the terms of the policies. Weassess recoverability of deferred acquisition costs at a level consistent with the way we acquire, service and manage insurance policies and measure profitability. We analyze our acquisition cost assumptions to reflect actual experience, and we evaluate potential premium deficiencies.
Certain property casualty policies are not entered into policy underwriting systems as of the effective date of coverage. An estimate is recorded for these unprocessed written premiums. A large majority of the estimate is unearned and has no material impact on earned premiums.
Premiums receivable are reviewed for impairment on a quarterly basis. We maintain an allowance for uncollectiblepremiums.
We establish reserves to cover the expected cost of claims, losses and expenses related to investigating, processing and resolving claims. Although the appropriate amount of reserves is inherently uncertain, we base our decisions on past experience and current facts. Reserves are based on claims reported prior to the endof the year and estimates of unreported claims. We regularly review and update reserves using the most current information available. Any resulting adjustments are reflected in current calendar year insurance losses and policyholderbenefits. We estimate that we may recover some of ourcosts through salvage and subrogation.
Policyholder Dividends Certain workers compensation policies include the possibility of a policyholder earning a return of a portion of premium in the form of a policyholder dividend. The dividend generally is calculated by determining theprofitability of a policy year along with the associated premium. We reserve for all probable future policyholder dividend payments. We record policyholder dividends as other underwritingexpenses.
Life Insurance We offer several types of life insurance and disability income insurance, and we account for each according to theduration of the contract. Short-duration life and health contracts are written to cover claims that arise during ashort, fixed term of coverage. We generally have the right to change the amount of premium charged or cancelthecoverage at the end of each contract term. We record premiums for short-duration life and health contracts similarly to property casualty contracts.
Long-duration contracts are written to provide coverage for an extended period of time. Traditional long-duration contracts require policyholders to pay scheduled gross premiums, generally not less frequently than annually, over the term of the coverage. Premiums for these contracts, such as whole life insurance and disability income insurance, are recognized as revenue when due. Some traditional long-duration contracts, such as ten-pay whole life insurance, have premium payment periods shorter than the period over which coverage is provided. For these contracts, the excess of premium over the amount required to pay expenses and benefits is recognized over the term of the coverage rather than over the premium payment period.
We establish a liability for traditional long-duration contracts as we receive premiums. The amount of this liability is the present value of future expenses and benefits less the present value of future net premiums. Netpremium is the portion of gross premium required to provide for all expenses and benefits. We estimate future expenses and benefits and net premium using assumptions for expected expenses, mortality, morbidity, withdrawal rates and investment income. We include a provision for deviation, meaning we allow for some uncertainty in making our assumptions. We establish our assumptions when the contract is issued, and we generally maintain those assumptions for the life of the contract. We use both our own experience and industry experience, adjusted for historical trends, in arriving at our assumptions for expected mortality, morbidity and withdrawal rates. We use our own experience and historical trends for setting our assumption for expected expenses. We base our assumption for expected investment income on our own experience, adjusted for current economic conditions.
We capitalize acquisition costs for traditional long-duration contracts. We charge these capitalized costs associated with successfully acquiring traditional long-duration contract insurance policies over the premium-paying period of the policies. We use the sameassumptions used in establishing the liability for the contract. We update our Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 124 acquisition cost assumptions periodically to reflect actual experience, and we evaluate our deferred acquisition costs forrecoverability.
Universal life contracts are long-duration contracts for which contractual provisions are not fixed, unlike whole life insurance. Universal life contracts allow policyholders to vary the amount of premium, within limits,without our consent. However, we may vary the mortality, expense charges and the interest creditingrate, within limits, used to accumulate policy values. We do not record universal life premiums as revenue. Instead we recognize as revenue the mortality charges, administration charges and surrender charges when received. Some of our universal life contracts assess administration charges in the early years of the contract that are compensation for services we will provide in the later years of the contract. Theseadministration charges are deferred and are recognized over the period when we provide those future services. We maintain a policy reserve liability equal to the policyholder account value. There is no provision for adverse deviation. Some of our universal life policies contain no-lapse guarantee provisions. For these policies, we establish a reserve in addition to the account balance, based on expected no-lapse guarantee benefits and expected policy assessments.
We capitalize acquisition costs associated with successfully acquiring universal life long-duration contracts. Wecharge these capitalized costs to expenses over the term of coverage of the contract in accordance with the recognition of gross profit from the contract. When we charge deferred policy acquisition costs to expenses, we use assumptions based on our best estimates of long-term experience. Wereview and modify these assumptions on a regular basis.
Separate Accounts We have issued universal life contracts with guaranteed minimum returns, referred to as bank-owned life insurance contracts (BOLIs). A BOLI is designed so the bank is the policy owner and the policy beneficiary. We legally segregate and record as separate accounts the assets and liabilities for some of our BOLIs, based on the specific contract provisions. We guarantee minimum investment returns, account values and death benefits for our separate account BOLIs. Our other BOLIs are general account products.
We carry the assets of separate account BOLIs at fair value. The liabilities on separate account BOLIs primarily are the contract holders claims to the related assets and are carried at an amount equal to the contract holders account value. At December31, 2016 , the current fair value of the BOLI invested assets and cash exceeded the current fair value of the contract holders account value by approximately $16 million . If the BOLI projected fair value were to fall below the value we guaranteed, a liability would be established with a corresponding charge to the companysearnings.
Generally, investment income and realized investment gains and losses of the separate accounts accrue directly to the contract holder, and we do not include them in the consolidated statements of income. Revenues and expenses related to separate accounts consist of contractual fees and mortality, surrender and expense risk charges. Also,each separate account BOLI includes a negotiated capital gain and loss sharing arrangement between the company and the bank. A percentage of each separate accounts realized capital gain and loss representing contract fees and assessments accrues to us and is transferred from the separate account to our general account and is recognized as revenue or expense. We record as revenues separate account investment management fees in fee revenues of the consolidated statements of income.
Reinsurance During 2015, The Cincinnati Insurance Company expanded in the area of reinsurance assumed. Approximately half of the business written includes treaties that provide coveragefor property catastrophe events on a worldwide basis. Treaties are written on a pro rata and excess of loss basis. Premiums are primarily earned on a pro rata basis over the coverage period of the treaty. We also assume risk with limited exposure as a reinsurer for other insurance companies, reinsurers and involuntary state pools.
We reduce risk and uncertainty by buying property casualty reinsurance and retrocessional reinsurance as well as life reinsurance. Reinsurance and retrocessional reinsurance contracts do not relieve us from our obligation to policyholders, but rather help protect our financial strength to perform that duty. Allof these ceded reinsurance contracts transfer the economic risk of loss.
Premiums that we cede are deferred and recorded as earned premiums on a pro rata basis over the terms of the contracts. Weestimate loss amounts recoverable from our reinsurers based on the reinsurance policy terms.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 125 Historically, our claims with reinsurers have been paid. We establish an insignificant allowance for uncollectible reinsurance.
Income Taxes We calculate deferred income tax liabilities and assets using tax rates in effect when temporary differences in the consolidated financial statement income and taxable income are expected to reverse. We recognize deferred income taxes for numerous temporary differences between our taxable income and consolidated financial statement income and other changes in shareholders equity. Such temporary differences relate primarily to unrealized gains and losses on investments and differences in the recognition of deferred acquisition costs, unearned premium and insurance reserves. We charge deferred income taxes associated with balances that impact other comprehensive income, such as unrealized appreciation and depreciation of investments (except the amounts related to the effect of income tax rate changes), to shareholders equity in AOCI. We charge deferred taxes associated with other differences toincome.
See Note 11, Income Taxes, for further detail on our uncertain tax positions. Although no Internal Revenue Service (IRS) penalties currently are accrued, if incurred, they would be recognized as a component of income tax expense.
Earnings per Share Net income per common share is based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during each of the respective years. We calculate net income per common share (diluted) assuming the exercise or conversion of sharebased awards using the treasury stock method.
Land, Building and Equipment We record land at cost, and record building and equipment at cost less accumulated depreciation. Equipment held under capital leases also is classified as property and equipment with the related lease obligations recorded as liabilities. We capitalize and amortize costs for internally developed computer software during the application development stage. These costs generally consist of external consulting, internal payroll and payroll-relatedcosts. Ourdepreciation is based on estimated useful lives (ranging from three years to 39.5 years) using straight-line and accelerated methods. Depreciation expense was $30 million for 2016 , $36 million for 2015 and $37 million for 2014 . We review our accumulated depreciation for our building, equipment and software assets and write off fully depreciated assets for obsolesce and nonuse.
We monitor land, building and equipment and software assets for potential impairments. Potential impairments may include a significant decrease in the fair values of the assets, considerable cost overruns on projects, a change in legal factors or business climate or other factors that indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable or useful. There were no recorded land, building and equipment impairments for 2016 , 2015 or 2014 .
Finance Receivables Our leasing subsidiary provides auto and equipment direct financing (leases and loans) to commercial and individual clients. We generally transfer ownership of the property to the client as the terms of the leases expire.Our lease contracts contain bargain purchase options. We account for these leases and loans as direct financing-type leases. We capitalize and amortize lease or loan origination costs over the life of the financing, usingthe effective interest method. These costs may include, but are not limited to finder fees, broker fees, filing fees and the cost of credit reports. We record income as other revenues over the financing term using the effective interest method in the consolidated statements of income. Finance receivables are reviewed for impairment and are insignificant to our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
Employee Benefit Pension Plan We sponsor a defined benefit pension plan that was modified during 2008. We closed entry into the pension plan, and only participants 40 years of age or older could elect to remain in the plan. Our pension expense is based on certain actuarial assumptions and also is composed of several components that are determined using the projected unit credit actuarial cost method. Refer to Note13, Employee Retirement Benefits, for more information about our defined benefit pension plan.
Share-Based Compensation We grant qualified and nonqualified share-based compensation under authorized plans. The stock options generally vest on a graded scale over three years following the date of grant and are exercisable over 10 -year periods.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 126 Wegrant service-based restricted stock units that cliff vest three years after the date of grant as well as service-based restricted stock units that vest ratably over the three -year vesting term. We also grant performance-based restricted stock units that vest if certain market conditions are attained. In 2016 , the CFC compensation committee approved share-based awards including incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options, service-based restricted and performance-based restricted stock units. See Note17, Share-Based Associate Compensation Plans, for furtherdetails.
Subsequent Events There were no subsequent events requiring adjustment to the consolidated financial statements or disclosure.
Adopted Accounting Updates ASU 2014-12, Compensation-Stock Compensation: Accounting for Share-Based Payments When the Terms of an Award Provide That a Performance Target Could Be Achieved after the Requisite Service Period In June 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-12, Compensation-Stock Compensation: Accounting for Share-Based Payments When the Terms of an Award Provide That a Performance Target Could Be Achieved after the Requisite Service Period.
ASU 2014-12 requires that performance targets that affect vesting and that could be achieved after the requisite service period be treated as performance conditions. The effective date of ASU 2014-12 was for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2015. The company adopted this ASU and it did not have a material impact on our companys consolidated financial position, cash flows or results of operations.
ASU 2015-02, Consolidation (Topic 810) - Amendments to the Consolidation Analysis In February 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-02, Consolidation (Topic 810) - Amendments to the Consolidation Analysis.
ASU 2015-02 makes amendments to the current consolidation guidance, focusing mainly on the investment management industry; however, entities across all industries may be impacted. The effective date of ASU 2015-02 was for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2015. The company adopted this ASU and it did not have a material impact on our companys consolidated financial position, cash flows or results of operations.
ASU 2015-09, Financial Services-Insurance: Disclosures about Short-Duration Contracts In May 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-09, Financial Services-Insurance: Disclosures About Short-Duration Contracts.
ASU 2015-09 requires entities to provide additional disclosures about the liability for loss and loss expense reserves to increase the transparency of significant estimates. ASU 2015-09 also requires entities to disclose information about significant changes in methodologies and assumptions used to calculate the liability for loss and loss expense reserves, including reasons for the change and the effects on the financial statements. ASU2015-09 also requires entities to disclose a rollforward of the liability of loss and loss expense reserves for annual and interim reporting periods. The effective date of ASU 2015-09 is for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2015, and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016. The Company adopted this ASU as of December 31, 2016.  The ASU did not have a material impact on our companys financial position, cashflows or results of operations, but the ASU required additional disclosures in Note 4, Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expenses, to these consolidated financial statements and will require additional disclosure to our interim reporting periods in 2017.
Pending Accounting Updates ASU 2014-09 Revenue from Contracts with Customers In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers . ASU 2014-09 requires an entity to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods and services. Insurance contracts do not fall within the scope of this ASU. The effective date of ASU 2014-09 is for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017. The ASU has not yet been adopted and will not have a material impact on our companys consolidated financial position, cash flows or results of operations.
ASU 2016-01, Financial Instruments - Overall (Subtopic 825-10) - Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01, Financial Instruments - Overall (Subtopic 825-10) - Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.
ASU 2016-01 revises the accounting related to the Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 127 classification and measurement of investments in equity securities and the presentation of certain fair value changes for financial liabilities measured at fair value. The effective date of ASU 2016-01 is for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017. The ASU has not yet been adopted. Management is currently evaluating the impact on our companys consolidated financial position, cash flows and results of operations.
ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842).
The main provision of ASU 2016-02 requires the recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities by lessees for those leases classified as operating leases under previous GAAP. The effective date of ASU 2016-02 is for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018. The ASU has not yet been adopted. Management is currently evaluating the impact on our companys consolidated financial position, cash flows and results of operations.
ASU 2016-07, Investments - Equity Method and Joint Ventures (Topic 323): Simplifying the Transition to the Equity Method of Accounting In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-07, Equity Method and Joint Ventures (Topic 323): Simplifying the Transition to the Equity Method of Accounting.
ASU 2016-07 eliminates the requirement to retroactively adjust an investment, results of operations, and retained earnings once an investment qualifies for use of the equity method.  It requires the equity method investor to add the cost of acquiring the additional interest in the investee to the current basis of the investor's previously held interest and adopt the equity method of accounting as of the date the investment becomes qualified for equity method accounting without retroactive adjustment. The effective date of ASU 2016-07 is for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016. The ASU has not yet been adopted; however, it will not have a material impact on our company's consolidated financial position, cash flows or results of operations.
ASU 2016-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-09, Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting.
ASU 2016-09 simplifies and improves several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows. The effective date of ASU 2016-09 is for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016. The ASU has not yet been adopted; however, it will not have a material impact on our company's consolidated financial position, cash flows or results of operations.
ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments . ASU 2016-13 amends previous guidance on the impairment of financial instruments by adding an impairment model that allows an entity to recognize expected credit losses as an allowance rather than impairing as they are incurred.The new guidance is intended to reduce complexity of credit impairment models and result in a more timely recognition of expected credit losses. The effective date of ASU 2016-13 is for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019. The ASU has not yet been adopted. Management is currently evaluating the impact on our companys consolidated financial position, cash flows and results of operations.
ASU 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments . ASU 2016-15 addresses eight specific cash flow issues with the objective of reducing the existing diversity in practice.The effective date of ASU 2016-15 is for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017. The ASU has not yet been adopted; however, it is not expected to have a material impact on our company's consolidated financial position, cash flows or results of operations.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 128 NOTE 2  Investments The following table provides cost or amortized cost, gross unrealized gains, gross unrealized losses and fairvalue for our fixed-maturity and equity securities: (Dollars in millions) Cost or amortized cost Gross unrealized Fair value At December 31, 2016 gains losses Fixed-maturity securities: Corporate $ 5,555 $ 252 $ 26 $ 5,781 States, municipalities and political subdivisions 3,770 100 42 3,828 Commercial mortgage-backed 282 7 2 287 Government-sponsored enterprises 167  3 164 Foreign government 10   10 United States government 10   10 Convertibles and bonds with warrants attached 5   5 Subtotal 9,799 359 73 10,085 Equity securities: Common equities 2,812 2,320 9 5,123 Nonredeemable preferred equities 183 28  211 Subtotal 2,995 2,348 9 5,334 Total $ 12,794 $ 2,707 $ 82 $ 15,419 At December 31, 2015 Fixed-maturity securities: Corporate $ 5,294 $ 255 $ 96 $ 5,453 States, municipalities and political subdivisions 3,440 172 1 3,611 Commercial mortgage-backed 287 4 2 289 Government-sponsored enterprises 284  6 278 Foreign government 10   10 Convertibles and bonds with warrants attached 5   5 United States government 4   4 Subtotal 9,324 431 105 9,650 Equity securities: Common equities 2,749 1,787 51 4,485 Nonredeemable preferred equities 189 32  221 Subtotal 2,938 1,819 51 4,706 Total $ 12,262 $ 2,250 $ 156 $ 14,356 The net unrealized investment gains in our fixed-maturity portfolio at December 31, 2016, are primarily the result of the continued low interest rate environment that increased the fair value of our fixed-maturity portfolio. Our commercial mortgage-backed securities had an average rating of Aa1/AA at December31, 2016 and 2015 . The seven largest net unrealized investment gains in our common stock portfolio are from JP Morgan Chase & Co. (NYSE:JPM), ExxonMobil Corporation (NYSE:XOM), Honeywell International Incorporated (NYSE:HON), BlackRock Inc. (NYSE:BLK), Microsoft Corporation (Nasdaq:MFST), Johnson and Johnson (NYSE:JNJ), and TheProcter & Gamble Company (NYSE:PG), which had acombined gross unrealized gain of $698 million . At December31, 2016 , JP Morgan Chase & Co. was our largest single equity holding with a fair value of 3.8 percent of our publicly traded common equities portfolio and 1.3 percent of the total investment portfolio.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 129 The table below provides fair values and unrealized losses by investment category and by the duration of the securities continuous unrealized loss positions: (Dollars in millions) Less than 12 months 12 months or more Total At December 31, 2016 Fair value Unrealized losses Fair value Unrealized losses Fair value Unrealized losses Fixed-maturity securities: Corporate $ 733 $ 15 $ 189 $ 11 $ 922 $ 26 States, municipalities and political subdivisions 989 42   989 42 Commercial mortgage-backed 89 2 2  91 2 Government-sponsored enterprises 155 3   155 3 United States government 6    6  Subtotal 1,972 62 191 11 2,163 73 Equity securities: Common equities 103 9   103 9 Nonredeemable preferred equities 4    4  Subtotal 107 9   107 9 Total $ 2,079 $ 71 $ 191 $ 11 $ 2,270 $ 82 At December31, 2015 Fixed-maturity securities: Corporate $ 1,099 $ 63 $ 133 $ 33 $ 1,232 $ 96 States, municipalities and political subdivisions 47 1 22  69 1 Commercial mortgage-backed 103 2 2  105 2 Government-sponsored enterprises 100 2 127 4 227 6 Subtotal 1,349 68 284 37 1,633 105 Equity securities: Common equities 270 51   270 51 Nonredeemable preferred equities 35    35  Subtotal 305 51   305 51 Total $ 1,654 $ 119 $ 284 $ 37 $ 1,938 $ 156 Contractual maturity dates for fixed-maturity investments were: (Dollars in millions) Amortized cost Fair value % of fair value At December 31, 2016 Maturity dates: Due in one year or less $ 462 $ 469 4.6 % Due after one year through five years 2,974 3,135 31.1 Due after five years through ten years 3,850 3,941 39.1 Due after ten years 2,513 2,540 25.2 Total $ 9,799 $ 10,085 100.0 % Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities when there is a right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties.
At December31, 2016 , fixed-maturity investments with amortized cost of $70 million and fair value of $72 million were on deposit with various states in compliance with regulatory requirements. At December31, 2015 , fixed-maturity investments with amortized cost of $74 million and fair value of $77 million were on deposit with various states in compliance with regulatory requirements.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 130 The following table provides investment income, realized investment gains and losses, and the change in unrealized investment gains and losses: (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Investment income: Interest $ 440 $ 428 $ 417 Dividends 161 150 138 Other 3 3 2 Total 604 581 557 Less investment expenses 9 9 8 Total $ 595 $ 572 $ 549 Realized investment gains and losses: Fixed maturities: Gross realized gains $ 26 $ 18 $ 21 Gross realized losses (1 )  (3 ) Other-than-temporary impairments (2 ) (18 ) (15 ) Equity securities: Gross realized gains 152 129 136 Gross realized losses (53 ) (26 )  Other-than-temporary impairments  (34 ) (9 ) Other 2 1 3 Total $ 124 $ 70 $ 133 Change in unrealized investment gains and losses: Fixed maturities $ (40 ) $ (263 ) $ 106 Equity securities 571 (362 ) 278 Less deferred income taxes 186 (220 ) 134 Total $ 345 $ (405 ) $ 250 For the years ended December31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , there were no credit losses on fixed-maturity securities for which a portion of OTTI has been recognized in other comprehensive income.
During 2016 , we other-than-temporarily impaired four securities. At December31, 2016 , 32 fixed-maturity investments with a total unrealized loss of $11 million had been in an unrealized loss position for 12 months or more. Of that total, no fixed-maturity investments had fair values below 70 percent of amortized cost. There were no equity security investments in an unrealized loss position for 12months or more as of December31, 2016 .
During 2015 , we other-than-temporarily impaired 20 securities. At December31, 2015 , 69 fixed-maturity investments with a total unrealized loss of $37 million had been in an unrealized loss position for 12 months or more. Of that total, five fixed-maturity investments had fair values below 70 percent of amortized cost. There were no equity security investments in an unrealized loss position for 12months or more as of December31, 2015 .
During 2014 , we other-than-temporarily impaired six securities. At December31, 2014 , 144 fixed-maturity investments with a total unrealized loss of $10 million had been in an unrealized loss position for 12 months or more. Of that total, no fixed-maturity investments had fair values below 70 percent of amortized cost. There were three equity security investments in an unrealized loss position for 12months or more with a total unrealized loss of $1 million as of December31, 2014 . Of that total, no equity security investments had fair values below 70 percent ofcost.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 131 NOTE 3  Fair Value Measurements Fair Value Hierarchy The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices with readily available independent data in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable market inputs (Level 3). When various inputs for measurement fall within different levels of the fair value hierarchy, the lowest observable input that has a significant impact on fair value measurement is used. Our valuation techniques have not changed from those used at December31, 2015 , and ultimately management determines fair value. Financial instruments reported at fair value in our consolidated financial statements are categorized based upon the following characteristics or inputs to the valuationtechniques:  Level 1  Financial assets and liabilities for which inputs are observable and are obtained from reliable quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets. This is the most reliable fair value measurement and includes, for example, active exchange-traded equity securities.
Level 2  Financial assets and liabilities for which values are based on quoted prices in markets that are not active or for which values are based on similar assets and liabilities that are actively traded. This also includes pricing models for which the inputs are corroborated by market data.
The technique used for the Level 2 fixed-maturity securities and taxable fixed maturities in separate accounts is the application of market based modeling. The inputs used for all classes of fixed-maturity securities listed in the table below include relevant market information by asset class, trade activity of like securities, marketplace quotes, benchmark yields, spreads off benchmark yields, interest rates, U.S. Treasury or swap curves, yield to maturity and economic events. Specific to commercial mortgage-backed securities, key inputs also include prepayment and default projections based on past performance of the underlying collateral and current market data. All of the Level 2 fixed-maturity securities are priced by a nationally recognized pricing vendor.
The Level 2 nonredeemable preferred equities technique used is the application of market based modeling. The inputs used, similar to those used by the pricing vendor for our fixed-maturity securities, include relevant market information, trade activity of like securities, yield to maturity, corporate action notices and economic events. All of the Level 2 nonredeemable preferred equities are priced by a nationally recognized pricing vendor.
Level 3  Financial assets and liabilities for which values are based on prices or valuation techniques that require inputs that are both unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement. Level 3 inputs include thefollowing:  Quotes from brokers or other external sources that are not considered binding;  Quotes from brokers or other external sources where it cannot be determined that market participants would in fact transact for the asset or liability at the quoted price; or  Quotes from brokers or other external sources where the inputs are not deemed observable.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 132 The following tables illustrate the fair value hierarchy for those assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis at December31, 2016 and 2015 . We do not have any liabilities carried at fair value. There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2.
(Dollars inmillions) Quotedpricesin activemarketsfor identicalassets (Level1) Significant unobservable inputs (Level3) At December 31, 2016 Significantother observableinputs (Level2) Total Fixed maturities, available for sale: Corporate $  $ 5,703 $ 78 $ 5,781 States, municipalities and political subdivisions  3,828  3,828 Commercial mortgage-backed  287  287 Government-sponsored enterprises  164  164 Foreign government  10  10 United States government 10   10 Convertibles and bonds with warrants attached  5  5 Subtotal 10 9,997 78 10,085 Common equities, available for sale 5,123   5,123 Nonredeemable preferred equities, available for sale  211  211 Separate accounts taxable fixed maturities  750  750 Top Hat savings plan mutual funds and common equity (included in Other assets) 24   24 Total $ 5,157 $ 10,958 $ 78 $ 16,193 At December 31, 2015 Fixed maturities, available for sale: Corporate $  $ 5,402 $ 51 $ 5,453 States, municipalities and political subdivisions  3,611  3,611 Commercial mortgage-backed  289  289 Government-sponsored enterprises  278  278 Foreign government  10  10 Convertibles and bonds with warrants attached  5  5 United States government 4   4 Subtotal 4 9,595 51 9,650 Common equities, available for sale 4,485   4,485 Nonredeemable preferred equities, available for sale  218 3 221 Separate accounts taxable fixed maturities  736 1 737 Top Hat savings plan mutual funds and common equity (included in Other assets) 21   21 Total $ 4,510 $ 10,549 $ 55 $ 15,114 Each financial instrument that was deemed to have significant unobservable inputs when determining valuation is identified in the following tables by security type with a summary of changes in fair value for the years ended December31, 2016 and 2015 . Total Level 3 assets continue to be less than 1 percent of financial assets measured at fair value in the consolidated balance sheets. Assets presented in the table below were valued based primarily on broker/dealer quotes for which there is a lack of transparency as to inputs used to develop the valuations. Transfersinto Level3 included situations where a fair value quote was not provided by the company's nationally recognized pricing vendor and as a result the price was stale or had been replaced with a broker quote where the inputs had not been corroborated to be market observable resulting in the security being classified as Level3. Transfers out of Level3 included situations where a broker quote was used in the prior period and a fair value quote Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 133 became available from the company's pricing vendor in the current period. The quantitative detail of these unobservable inputs is neither provided nor reasonably available to us.
The following table provides the change in Level 3 assets during 2016 and 2015 : (Dollars inmillions) Assetfairvaluemeasurementsusingsignificantunobservableinput Corporate fixed maturities Taxable fixed maturities-separate accounts Nonredeemable preferred equities Total Beginning balance, January 1, 2016 $ 51 $ 1 $ 3 $ 55 Total gains or losses (realized/unrealized): Included in net income     Included in other comprehensive income   (1 ) (1 ) Purchases 57   57 Sales (1 )  (2 ) (3 ) Transfers into Level 3 13   13 Transfers out of Level 3 (42 ) (1 )  (43 ) Ending balance, December31, 2016 $ 78 $  $  $ 78 Beginning balance, January 1, 2015 $ 18 $  $ 2 $ 20 Total gains or losses (realized/unrealized): Included in net income     Included in other comprehensive income   1 1 Purchases 36 1  37 Sales     Transfers into Level 3     Transfers out of Level 3 (3 )   (3 ) Ending balance, December31, 2015 $ 51 $ 1 $ 3 $ 55 With the exception of the above table, additional disclosures for the Level 3 category are notmaterial.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 134 Fair Value Disclosure for Assets and Liabilities Not Carried at Fair Value The disclosures below are presented to provide information about the effects of current market conditions on financial instruments that are not reported at fair value in our consolidated financial statements.
The following table shows fair values of our note payable and long-term debt: (Dollars inmillions) Quotedprices in active marketsfor identicalassets (Level1) Significant other observable inputs (Level2) Significant unobservable inputs (Level3) Total At December 31, 2016 Note payable $  $ 20 $  $ 20 6.900% senior debentures, due 2028  33  33 6.920% senior debentures, due 2028  488  488 6.125% senior notes, due 2034  435  435 Total $  $ 976 $  $ 976 At December 31, 2015 Note payable $  $ 35 $  $ 35 6.900% senior debentures, due 2028  31  31 6.920% senior debentures, due 2028  480  480 6.125% senior notes, due 2034  425  425 Total $  $ 971 $  $ 971 Fair value of the note payable was determined based upon the outstanding balance at December31, 2016 and 2015 , because it is short term and tied to a variable interest rate. Fair value of the long-term debt was determined under the fair value measurements and disclosure accounting rules based on market pricing of similar debt instruments that are actively trading. We determine fair value for our debt the same way that we value corporate fixed maturities in our investment portfolio. Fairvalue can vary with macroeconomic conditions. Regardless of the fluctuations in fair value, the outstanding principal amount of our long-term debt is $793 million at both December31, 2016 and 2015 . None of the long-term debt is encumbered by rating triggers. The note payable and long-term debt were classified as Level 2 as an active market does not exist, but fair value is determined based on observable inputs.
The following table shows the fair value of our life policy loans, included in other invested assets: (Dollars inmillions) Quotedpricesin activemarketsfor identicalassets (Level1) Significantother observableinputs (Level2) Significant unobservable inputs (Level3) Total At December 31, 2016 Life policy loans $  $  $ 40 $ 40 At December 31, 2015 Life policy loans $  $  $ 40 $ 40 Outstanding principal and interest for these life policy loans totaled $31 million at December31, 2016 and 2015 . Todetermine the fair value, we make the following significant assumptions: (1) the discount rates used to calculate the present value of expected payments are the risk-free spot rates, as nonperformance riskis minimal; and (2) the loan repayment rate by which policyholders pay off their loan balances is in line with pastexperience.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 135 The following table shows fair value of our deferred annuities and structured settlements included in life policy and investment contract reserves: (Dollars inmillions) Quotedpricesin activemarketsfor identicalassets (Level1) Significantother observableinputs (Level2) Significant unobservable inputs (Level3) Total At December 31, 2016 Deferred annuities $  $  $ 839 $ 839 Structured settlements  206  206 Total $  $ 206 $ 839 $ 1,045 At December 31, 2015 Deferred annuities $  $  $ 886 $ 886 Structured settlements  208  208 Total $  $ 208 $ 886 $ 1,094 Recorded reserves for the deferred annuities were $861 million and $860 million at December31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Recorded reserves for the structured settlements were $170 million and $174 million at December31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively.
Fair values for deferred annuities were calculated based upon internally developed models because active markets and observable inputs do not exist. To determine the fair value, we made the following significant assumptions: (1) the discount rates used to calculate the present value of expected payments are the risk-free spot rates plus an A3 rated bond spread for financial issuers at December31, 2016 and 2015 , to account for nonperformance risk; (2) the rate of interest credited to policyholders is the portfolio net earned interest rate less a spread for expenses and profit; and (3) additional lapses occur when the credited interest rate is exceeded by an assumed competitor credited rate, which is a function of the risk-free rate of the economic scenario being modeled.
Fair values for structured settlements were calculated based on internally developed models which assume the discount rates used to calculate the present value of expected payments are the risk-free spot rates plus an A3 rated bond spread for financial issuers at December31, 2016 and 2015 , to account for nonperformance risk. The structured settlements were classified as Level 2 as an active market does not exist, but fair value is based on observable inputs.
NOTE 4  Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expenses We use actuarial methods, models and judgment to estimate, as of a financial statement date, the property casualtyloss and loss expense reserves required to pay for and settle all outstanding insured claims, including incurred but not reported (IBNR) claims, as of that date. The actuarial estimate is subject to review and adjustment by an inter-departmental committee that includes actuarial, claims, underwriting, loss prevention and accounting management. This committee is familiar with relevant company and industry business, claims and underwriting trends, as well as general economic and legal trends that could affect future loss and loss expense payments. Theamount we will actually have to pay for claims can be highly uncertain. This uncertainty, together with the size of our reserves, makes the loss and loss expense reserves our most significant estimate.
Our reserving process takes into account known facts and interpretations of circumstances and factors including the type of claim, policy provisions pertaining to each claim, potential subrogation or salvage recoverable, large loss activity and trends, new business activity, judicial decisions, economic conditions, changes in law and regulation and product and underwriting changes. There have been no significant changes in methodologies and assumptions used in calculating loss and loss expense reserves for all years presented. There were no material additional premiums or return premiums accrued for as a result of prior-year effects.
Our field claims representatives establish case reserves when claims are reported to provide for ourunpaid loss and loss expense obligation associated with individual claims.
For events designated as natural catastrophes, we calculate IBNR reserves directly as a result of estimated claim counts and estimated average dollar amount per claim for each event. Once individual case reserves are established for a catastrophe event, we reduce the IBNR reserves.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 136 Our actuarial staff uses generally accepted actuarial methods and models to derive ultimate loss and IBNR reserve estimates. The time interval between a claims occurrence and its settlement is one of the crucial attributes when estimating ultimate losses and IBNR reserves.
Due to the uncertainties inherent with loss reserves, our ultimate loss experience could prove better or worse than what our carried reserves reflect. To the extent that reserves are inadequate and are required to be increased, the amount of the increase is a charge in that period, raising our loss and loss expense ratio and reducing earnings. Tothe extent that reserves are redundant and are required to be released, the amount of the release is a credit in that period, reducing our loss and loss expense ratio and increasing earnings.
This table summarizes activity for our consolidated property casualty loss and loss expensereserves: (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Gross loss and loss expense reserves, January 1 $ 4,660 $ 4,438 $ 4,241 Less reinsurance recoverable 281 282 299 Net loss and loss expense reserves, January 1 4,379 4,156 3,942 Net incurred loss and loss expenses related to: Current accident year 3,029 2,756 2,725 Prior accident years (168 ) (184 ) (98 ) Total incurred 2,861 2,572 2,627 Net paid loss and loss expenses related to: Current accident year 1,260 1,152 1,212 Prior accident years 1,243 1,197 1,201 Total paid 2,503 2,349 2,413 Net loss and loss expense reserves, December 31 4,737 4,379 4,156 Plus reinsurance recoverable 298 281 282 Gross loss and loss expense reserves, December 31 $ 5,035 $ 4,660 $ 4,438 The reserve for loss and loss expense in the consolidated balance sheets also included $50 million , $58 million and $47 million , respectively, for certain life and health loss and loss expense reserves. Additional disclosures for reserves related to these health claims are not material.
During 2016, we experienced $168 million of favorable development on prior accident years including $129 million offavorable development in commercial lines, $4 million of favorable development in personal lines, $34 million of favorable development in excess and surplus lines and $1 million of favorable development in our reinsurance assumed operations. We recognized favorable development of $69 million for the workers' compensation line, $29 million for the commercial property line, $20 million for the commercial casualty line and $42 million for the other commercial lines due to reduced uncertainty of prior accident year loss and loss expense for these lines. This illustrates the potential for revisions inherent in estimating reserves, especially for long-tail lines such as workers compensation.
We recognized unfavorable reserve development of $31 million for the commercial auto line and $18 million for the personal auto line. Both lines developed unfavorable due to higher loss cost effects in recent accident years, resulting in an increase of our reserve estimate for claims that have not yet been settled.
During 2015 , we experienced $184 million of favorable development on prior accident years including $154 million offavorable development in commercial lines, $5 million of adverse development in personal lines and $35 million of favorable development in excess and surplus lines. Favorable development in 2015 was $86 million more than in 2014 , due primarily to reduced uncertainty of prior accident year loss and loss expense. This illustrates the potential for revisions inherent in estimating reserves, especially for long-tail lines such as commercial casualty and workers compensation. We recognized favorable development of $93 million for the workers' compensation line, largely due to more favorable 2015 workers' compensation trends for estimated payments to be made in future calendar years that were down slightly from 2014 . We recognized favorable development of $63 million for the commercial casualty line. Development for products liability was favorable for most prior accident years and development of prior years Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 137 for commercial umbrella coverage improved slightly better than expected. Therefore, estimated ultimate losses were lowered. Our commercial auto line experienced $31 million of adverse development due to higher loss cost effects in recent accident years, resulting in an increase of our reserve estimate for claims that have not yet been settled. We believe we were slow to recognize some of the higher loss cost effects.
During 2014 , we experienced $98 million of favorable development on prior accident years including $57 million offavorable development in commercial lines, $12 million of favorable development in personal lines and $29 million of favorable development in excess and surplus lines. Favorable development in 2014 was $49 million less than in 2013 ,largely due to the change in prior accident years before catastrophes. We recognized favorable reserve development of $51 million for the workers compensation line, $34 million for the commercial property line and $14 million for the homeowner line, due to reduced uncertainty of prior accident year loss and loss expense for these lines. Our commercial casualty line experienced $5 million of adverse development due to an increase in its paid loss and loss expenses for cumulative accident years three or more years old, resulting in an increase recognized in estimates for IBNR losses and loss expenses for all prior accident years in total compared to 2013 and 2012 . Our commercial auto line developed unfavorably by $39 million during 2014 due to higher loss costeffects in recent accident years, resulting in an increase of our reserve estimate for claims that have not yet been settled.
Included in our lines of business are asbestos and environmental claims. We carried $85 million of net loss and loss expense reserves for asbestos and environmental claims and $45 million of reserves for mold claims at December31, 2016, compared with $84 million and $45 million , respectively, at December31, 2015. The asbestos and environmental claims amounts for each respective year constituted 1.8 percent and 1.9 percent of total net loss and loss expense reserves at these year-end dates.
We believe our exposure to asbestos and environmental claims is limited, largely because our reinsurance retention was $500,000 or below prior to 1987. We also were predominantly a personal lines company in the 1960s and 1970s. During the 1980s and early 1990s, commercial lines grew as apercentage of our overall business and our exposure to asbestos and environmental claims grew accordingly. Over that period, we included an asbestos and environmental exclusion in almost all policies or endorsed the exclusion to the policies. We have not engaged in any mergers or acquisitions through which such a liability could have been assumed. We continue to monitor our claims for evidence of material exposure to other mass tort classes such as silicosis, but we have found no such credible evidence to date.
The following table provides a reconciliation of the property casualty incurred losses and allocated loss adjustment expenses (ALAE) development and paid losses and ALAE development information at December 31, 2016.
(Dollars in millions) Cumulative incurred losses and ALAE as reported within the triangles, net of reinsurance Cumulative paid losses and ALAE as reported within the triangles, net of reinsurance Liabilities for loss and ALAE for accident years not presented in the triangles, net of reinsurance Total liabilities for loss and ALAE, net of reinsurance Reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses Total liabilities for gross loss and loss expense reserves Commercial casualty $ 4,160 $ 2,421 $ 81 $ 1,820 $ 137 $ 1,957 Workers' compensation 2,370 1,686 242 926 75 1,001 Commercial auto 1,768 1,264 12 516 5 521 Commercial property 2,187 1,910 11 288 18 306 Personal auto 1,633 1,388 4 249 31 280 Homeowner 1,452 1,322 2 132 2 134 Excess and surplus 366 144 1 223 6 229 Other short-duration insurance lines 342 Total liabilities for loss and ALAE reserves 4,770 Unallocated loss adjustment expense reserves 265 Gross loss and loss expense reserves $ 5,035 For all lines of business, the claim counts reported are primarily measured by insurance coverages that are triggered when a loss occurs and a reserve is established. For this purpose, coverages are defined as unique Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 138 combinations of certain attributes such as line of business and cause of loss.Claims that are opened and closed without payment are included in the reported claim counts. Claim counts are presented on a direct basis only and do not reflect any assumed or ceded reinsurance.
In the following tables, commercial casualty and workers' compensation each disclose 10 accident years of loss and ALAE reserves and eight accident years of the cumulative number of reported claims. In 2009, we refined our claim count logic such that the definition of an open claim, a closed claim and a claim that closes without payment was uniform amongst all of our systems, including legacy systems.Therefore, consistent definitions are only available for accident year 2009 and forward.We will increase the commercial casualty and workers compensation cumulative number of reported claims by one year in future periods, not to exceed 10 years .
Commercial auto, commercial property, personal auto and homeowner each disclose five accident years of loss and ALAE reserves and cumulative number of reported claims as each of these lines have five year cumulative average annual percentage payouts in excess of 95 percent. The excess and surplus lines began operations in 2008 with earned premiums and loss and ALAE reserves being immaterial prior to 2011. Accordingly, we initially disclose six accident years of loss and ALAE reserves and cumulative number of reported claims for the excess and surplus lines, and will disclose additional accident years, not to exceed 10 years.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 139 Commercial Casualty The following table shows the commercial casualty incurred and paid losses and ALAE development by accident year. The table also shows the IBNR reserves plus expected development on reported losses and claim frequency: (Dollars in millions, reported claims in thousands) As of December 31, 2016 Incurred losses and ALAE, net of reinsurance Total of incurred but not reported liabilities plus expected development on reported losses Cumulative number of reported claims Years ended December 31, Accident 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Year Unaudited 2016 2007 $ 509 $ 447 $ 412 $ 379 $ 352 $ 334 $ 328 $ 338 $ 333 $ 341 $ 5  2008 516 458 409 387 362 359 357 357 355 10  2009 484 409 412 360 370 365 357 357 21 20 2010 495 394 378 349 347 348 349 31 20 2011 466 404 377 377 375 380 37 19 2012 466 414 417 394 394 48 18 2013 448 443 431 416 96 19 2014 503 496 479 128 20 2015 533 526 225 19 2016 563 337 15 Total $ 4,160 Cumulative paid losses and ALAE, net of reinsurance 2007 $ 29 $ 92 $ 145 $ 200 $ 248 $ 275 $ 290 309 $ 314 $ 324 2008 31 93 158 212 262 293 315 325 331 2009 27 75 151 213 267 295 310 322 2010 33 92 159 203 256 285 300 2011 27 93 149 227 266 298 2012 27 88 170 232 288 2013 35 90 159 232 2014 34 97 172 2015 38 108 2016 46 Total 2,421 All outstanding liabilities before 2007, net of reinsurance 81 Liabilities for loss and ALAE, net of reinsurance $ 1,820 The following table shows the average annual percentage payout of incurred losses for the commercial casualty line of business: Average annual percentage payout of incurred losses by age, net of reinsurance (unaudited) Years 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Average annual percentage payout 8.0% 15.4% 17.7% 16.5% 13.8% 8.3% 4.7% 4.0% 1.5% 2.9% Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 140 Workers Compensation The following table shows the workers compensation incurred and paid losses and ALAE development by accident year. The table also shows the IBNR reserves plus expected development on reported losses and claim frequency: (Dollars in millions, reported claims in thousands) As of December 31, 2016 Incurred losses and ALAE, net of reinsurance Total of incurred but not reported liabilities plus expected development on reported losses Cumulative number of reported claims Years ended December 31, Accident 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Year Unaudited 2016 2007 $ 286 $ 281 $ 287 $ 286 $ 277 $ 279 $ 280 $ 277 277 $ 275 $ 28  2008 298 305 310 302 299 299 297 296 296 31  2009 307 278 263 238 238 235 234 234 22 27 2010 283 274 248 242 240 239 240 26 26 2011 284 251 246 242 239 236 26 24 2012 265 245 234 220 213 29 21 2013 264 246 221 212 34 20 2014 261 233 214 48 19 2015 246 220 83 17 2016 230 106 14 Total $ 2,370 Cumulative paid losses and ALAE, net of reinsurance 2007 $ 67 $ 145 $ 185 $ 206 $ 219 $ 226 $ 230 $ 233 $ 237 $ 238 2008 72 155 195 217 233 242 247 251 254 2009 65 132 163 179 188 193 198 201 2010 67 134 164 181 192 198 202 2011 65 131 161 177 186 190 2012 62 121 147 162 171 2013 61 119 144 157 2014 56 110 134 2015 47 93 2016 46 Total 1,686 All outstanding liabilities before 2007, net of reinsurance 242 Liabilities for loss and ALAE, net of reinsurance $ 926 The following table shows the average annual percentage payout of incurred losses for the workers compensation line of business: Average annual percentage payout of incurred losses by age, net of reinsurance (unaudited) Years 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Average annual percentage payout 25.7% 26.9% 12.7% 7.1% 4.4% 2.4% 1.6% 1.4% 1.2% 0.5% Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 141 Commercial Auto The following table shows the commercial auto incurred and paid losses and ALAE development by accident year. The table also shows the IBNR reserves plus expected development on reported losses and claim frequency: (Dollars in millions, reported claims in thousands) As of December 31, 2016 Incurred losses and ALAE, net of reinsurance Total of incurred but not reported liabilities plus expected development on reported losses Cumulative number of reported claims Years ended December 31, Accident 2012 2013 2014 2015 Year Unaudited 2016 2012 $ 275 $ 273 $ 285 $ 288 $ 294 $ 2 43 2013 292 305 315 322 9 46 2014 333 346 351 14 51 2015 374 384 38 51 2016 417 81 49 Total $ 1,768 Cumulative paid losses and ALAE, net of reinsurance 2012 $ 129 $ 184 $ 222 $ 258 $ 278 2013 141 199 246 285 2014 159 223 273 2015 173 244 2016 184 Total 1,264 All outstanding liabilities before 2012, net of reinsurance 12 Liabilities for loss and ALAE, net of reinsurance $ 516 The following table shows the average annual percentage payout of incurred losses for the commercial auto line of business. Commercial auto includes both physical damage and liability losses. A majority of the incurred losses paid after year 2 are the result of liability losses.
Average annual percentage payout of incurred losses by age, net of reinsurance (unaudited) Years 1 2 3 4 5 Average annual percentage payout 44.4% 18.4% 13.9% 12.2% 6.9% Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 142 Commercial Property The following table shows the commercial property incurred and paid losses and ALAE development by accident year. The table also shows the IBNR reserves plus expected development on reported losses and claim frequency: (Dollars in millions, reported claims in thousands) As of December 31, 2016 Incurred losses and ALAE, net of reinsurance Total of incurred but not reported liabilities plus expected development on reported losses Cumulative number of reported claims Years ended December 31, Accident 2012 2013 2014 2015 Year Unaudited 2016 2012 $ 403 $ 389 $ 388 $ 383 $ 386 $  16 2013 389 359 352 356 2 14 2014 452 444 441  17 2015 454 414 5 16 2016 590 38 16 Total $ 2,187 Cumulative paid losses and ALAE, net of reinsurance 2012 $ 255 $ 356 $ 376 $ 380 $ 383 2013 227 330 344 349 2014 297 412 432 2015 279 388 2016 358 Total 1,910 All outstanding liabilities before 2012, net of reinsurance 11 Liabilities for loss and ALAE, net of reinsurance $ 288 The following table shows the average annual percentage payout of incurred losses for the commercial property line of business: Average annual percentage payout of incurred losses by age, net of reinsurance (unaudited) Years 1 2 3 4 5 Average annual percentage payout 65.0% 26.8% 4.6% 1.2% 0.9% Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 143 Personal Auto The following table shows the personal auto incurred and paid losses and ALAE development by accident year. The table also shows the IBNR reserves plus expected development on reported losses and claim frequency: (Dollars in millions, reported claims in thousands) As of December 31, 2016 Incurred losses and ALAE, net of reinsurance Total of incurred but not reported liabilities plus expected development on reported losses Cumulative number of reported claims Years ended December 31, Accident 2012 2013 2014 2015 Year Unaudited 2016 2012 $ 260 $ 265 $ 269 $ 270 $ 271 $  89 2013 280 280 293 298  96 2014 317 317 325  104 2015 343 356 12 108 2016 383 38 104 Total $ 1,633 Cumulative paid losses and ALAE, net of reinsurance 2012 $ 174 $ 223 $ 250 $ 262 $ 268 2013 190 245 272 287 2014 210 267 298 2015 229 292 2016 243 Total 1,388 All outstanding liabilities before 2012, net of reinsurance 4 Liabilities for loss and ALAE, net of reinsurance $ 249 The following table shows the average annual percentage payout of incurred losses for the personal auto line of business. Personal auto includes both physical damage and liability losses. A majority of the incurred losses paid after year 2 are the result of liability losses.
Average annual percentage payout of incurred losses by age, net of reinsurance (unaudited) Years 1 2 3 4 5 Average annual percentage payout 64.0% 17.9% 9.6% 4.8% 2.0% Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 144 Homeowner The following table shows the homeowner incurred and paid losses and ALAE development by accident year. The table also shows the IBNR reserves plus expected development on reported losses and claim frequency: (Dollars in millions, reported claims in thousands) As of December 31, 2016 Incurred losses and ALAE, net of reinsurance Total of incurred but not reported liabilities plus expected development on reported losses Cumulative number of reported claims Years ended December 31, Accident 2012 2013 2014 2015 Year Unaudited 2016 2012 $ 344 $ 330 $ 328 $ 330 $ 329 $  33 2013 252 246 247 247  25 2014 297 283 286  26 2015 284 275 3 23 2016 315 29 21 Total $ 1,452 Cumulative paid losses and ALAE, net of reinsurance 2012 $ 256 $ 317 $ 324 $ 328 $ 329 2013 180 236 242 244 2014 224 273 281 2015 203 260 2016 208 Total 1,322 All outstanding liabilities before 2012, net of reinsurance 2 Liabilities for loss and ALAE, net of reinsurance $ 132 The following table shows the average annual percentage payout of incurred losses for the homeowner line of business: Average annual percentage payout of incurred losses by age, net of reinsurance (unaudited) Years 1 2 3 4 5 Average annual percentage payout 73.8% 19.7% 2.6% 1.0% 0.3% Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 145 Excess and Surplus Lines The following table shows the excess and surplus incurred and paid losses and ALAE development by accident year. The table also shows the IBNR reserves plus expected development on reported losses and claim frequency: (Dollars in millions, reported claims in thousands) As of December 31, 2016 Incurred losses and ALAE, net of reinsurance Total of incurred but not reported liabilities plus expected development on reported losses Cumulative number of reported claims Years ended December 31, Accident 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Year Unaudited 2016 2011 $ 48 $ 47 $ 44 $ 38 $ 36 $ 35 $  1 2012 67 56 49 40 37 2 1 2013 74 64 54 45 9 2 2014 95 82 75 26 2 2015 96 81 40 2 2016 93 54 2 Total $ 366 Cumulative paid losses and ALAE, net of reinsurance 2011 $ 8 $ 14 $ 23 $ 27 $ 30 $ 32 2012 9 15 19 25 29 2013 7 12 20 27 2014 9 17 27 2015 8 19 2016 10 Total 144 All outstanding liabilities before 2011, net of reinsurance 1 Liabilities for loss and ALAE, net of reinsurance $ 223 The following table shows the average annual percentage payout of incurred losses for the excess and surplus lines insurance segment. Excess and surplus lines consist mostly of commercial casualty and commercial property coverages. A majority of the incurred losses paid after year 2 are the result of commercial casualty losses.
Average annual percentage payout of incurred losses by age, net of reinsurance (unaudited) Years 1 2 3 4 5 6 Average annual percentage payout 15.9% 13.5% 17.4% 13.5% 9.9% 7.4% Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 146 NOTE 5  Life Policy and Investment Contract Reserves We establish the reserves for traditional life insurance policies based on expected expenses, mortality, morbidity, withdrawal rates, timing of claim presentation and investment yields, including a provision for uncertainty. Oncethese assumptions are established, they generally are maintained throughout the lives of the contracts. Weuse both our own experience and industry experience, adjusted for historical trends, in arriving at our assumptions for expected mortality, morbidity and withdrawal rates as well as for expected expenses. We base our assumptions for expected investment income on our own experience adjusted for current economic conditions.
We establish reserves for the companys universal life, deferred annuity and structured settlement policies equal tothe cumulative account balances, which include premium deposits plus credited interest less charges and withdrawals. Some of our universal life policies contain no-lapse guarantee provisions. For these policies, weestablish a reserve in addition to the account balance, based on expected no-lapse guarantee benefits and expected policy assessments.
This table summarizes our life policy and investment contract reserves: (Dollars in millions) At December 31, 2016 2015 Life policy reserves: Ordinary/traditional life $ 1,011 $ 943 Other 45 44 Subtotal 1,056 987 Investment contract reserves: Deferred annuities 861 860 Universal life 578 558 Structured settlements 170 174 Other 6 4 Subtotal 1,615 1,596 Total life policy and investment contract reserves $ 2,671 $ 2,583 Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 147 NOTE 6  Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs Expenses directly related to successfully acquired insurance policies  primarily commissions, premium taxes and underwriting costs  are deferred and amortized over the terms of the policies. We update our acquisition cost assumptions periodically to reflect actual experience, and we evaluate the costs for recoverability. The table below shows the deferred policy acquisition costs and asset reconciliation: (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Property casualty: Deferred policy acquisition costs asset, January 1 $ 388 $ 379 $ 366 Capitalized deferred policy acquisition costs 840 801 783 Amortized deferred policy acquisition costs (820 ) (792 ) (770 ) Deferred policy acquisition costs asset, December 31 $ 408 $ 388 $ 379 Life: Deferred policy acquisition costs asset, January 1 $ 228 $ 199 $ 199 Capitalized deferred policy acquisition costs 49 45 44 Amortized deferred policy acquisition costs (43 ) (37 ) (37 ) Amortized shadow deferred policy acquisition costs (5 ) 21 (7 ) Deferred policy acquisition costs asset, December 31 $ 229 $ 228 $ 199 Consolidated: Deferred policy acquisition costs asset, January 1 $ 616 $ 578 $ 565 Capitalized deferred policy acquisition costs 889 846 827 Amortized deferred policy acquisition costs (863 ) (829 ) (807 ) Amortized shadow deferred policy acquisition costs (5 ) 21 (7 ) Deferred policy acquisition costs asset, December 31 $ 637 $ 616 $ 578 No premium deficiencies were recorded in the consolidated statements of income in 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , as the sum of the anticipated loss and loss expenses, policyholder dividends and unamortized deferred acquisition expenses did not exceed the related unearned premiums and anticipated investment income.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 148 NOTE 7  Note Payable We have one line of credit in 2016 and 2015 through multiple commercial banks with a borrowing capacity of $225 million and anadditional $50 million accordion feature. Our unsecured revolving creditfacility has a term of five years that expires May13, 2019 . We had no compensating balance requirements onshort-term debt for either 2016 or 2015 . At December31, 2016 , $20 million was drawn on the line of credit. At December31, 2015 , $35 million was drawn on the line of credit. Theinterest rate charged on our borrowings onthis credit agreement ranged from 1.31 percent to 1.49 percent during 2016 and ranged from 1.07 percent to 1.19 percent during 2015 .
NOTE 8  Long-Term Debt and Capital Lease Obligations This table summarizes the principal amounts of our long-term debt excluding unamortized discounts, none of which are encumbered by rating triggers: (Dollars in millions) Book value Principal amount Interest rate Year of issue At December 31, At December 31, 2016 2015 2016 2015 6.900% 1998 Senior debentures, due 2028 $ 26 $ 26 $ 28 $ 28 6.920% 2005 Senior debentures, due 2028 391 391 391 391 6.125% 2004 Senior notes, due 2034 370 369 374 374 Total $ 787 $ 786 $ 793 $ 793 Capital lease obligations, excluding an insignificant amount of interest, totaled $39 million and $35 million in 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Below are the expected capital lease obligations that we expect to pay over the next six years: (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Capital lease obligations $ 12 $ 10 $ 7 $ 5 $ 3 $ 2 Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 149 NOTE 9  Shareholders Equity and Dividend Restrictions Declared cash dividends per share were $1.92 , $2.30 and $1.76 for the years ended December31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively.
Our insurance subsidiary declared dividends to the parent company of $475 million in 2016 , $447 million in 2015 and $400 million in 2014 . State regulatory requirements restrict the dividends insurance subsidiaries can pay. Dividends must be paid within 30 days of declaration. Generally, the most our insurance subsidiary can pay without prior regulatory approval is the greater of 10 percent of statutory capital and surplus or 100 percent of statutory net income for the prior calendaryear. Dividends exceeding these limitations may be paid only with approval of the insurance department of the domiciliary state. During 2017 , the total that our insurance subsidiary, which is the parent of all other insurance subsidiaries, may declare in dividends is approximately $469 million .
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income The table below shows beginning and end of year accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) for investments, pension obligations, life deferred acquisition costs, life policy reserves and other. The changes from the beginning of year to the end of year are the result of changes to other comprehensive income or loss (OCI).
(Dollars inmillions) 2016 2015 2014 Before tax Income tax Net Before tax Income tax Net Before tax Income tax Net Investments: AOCI, January 1 $ 2,094 $ 722 $ 1,372 $ 2,719 $ 942 $ 1,777 $ 2,335 $ 808 $ 1,527 OCI before realized gains recognized in net income 653 229 424 (556 ) (196 ) (360 ) 514 181 333 Realized gains recognized in net income (122 ) (43 ) (79 ) (69 ) (24 ) (45 ) (130 ) (47 ) (83 ) OCI 531 186 345 (625 ) (220 ) (405 ) 384 134 250 AOCI, December 31 $ 2,625 $ 908 $ 1,717 $ 2,094 $ 722 $ 1,372 $ 2,719 $ 942 $ 1,777 Pension obligations: AOCI, January 1 $ (42 ) $ (14 ) $ (28 ) $ (36 ) $ (12 ) $ (24 ) $ (18 ) $ (6 ) $ (12 ) OCI excluding amortization recognized in net income 13 5 8 (12 ) (5 ) (7 ) (21 ) (7 ) (14 ) Amortization recognized in net income 3 1 2 6 3 3 3 1 2 OCI 16 6 10 (6 ) (2 ) (4 ) (18 ) (6 ) (12 ) AOCI, December 31 $ (26 ) $ (8 ) $ (18 ) $ (42 ) $ (14 ) $ (28 ) $ (36 ) $ (12 ) $ (24 ) Life deferred acquisition costs, life policy reserves and other: AOCI, January 1 $ 1 $ 1 $  $ (12 ) $ (3 ) $ (9 ) $ (16 ) $ (5 ) $ (11 ) OCI before realized gains recognized in net income (8 ) (3 ) (5 ) 14 5 9 7 3 4 Realized gains recognized in net income (2 ) (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) (1 )  (3 ) (1 ) (2 ) OCI (10 ) (4 ) (6 ) 13 4 9 4 2 2 AOCI, December 31 $ (9 ) $ (3 ) $ (6 ) $ 1 $ 1 $  $ (12 ) $ (3 ) $ (9 ) Summary of AOCI: AOCI, January 1 $ 2,053 $ 709 $ 1,344 $ 2,671 $ 927 $ 1,744 $ 2,301 $ 797 $ 1,504 Investments OCI 531 186 345 (625 ) (220 ) (405 ) 384 134 250 Pension obligations OCI 16 6 10 (6 ) (2 ) (4 ) (18 ) (6 ) (12 ) Life deferred acquisition costs, life policy reserves and other OCI (10 ) (4 ) (6 ) 13 4 9 4 2 2 Total OCI 537 188 349 (618 ) (218 ) (400 ) 370 130 240 AOCI, December 31 $ 2,590 $ 897 $ 1,693 $ 2,053 $ 709 $ 1,344 $ 2,671 $ 927 $ 1,744 Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 150 Investments realized gains and life deferred acquisition costs, life policy reserves and other realized gains are recorded in the realized investment gains, net, line item in the consolidated statements of income. Amortization on pension obligations is recorded in the insurance losses and contract holders' benefits and underwriting, acquisition and insurance expenses in the consolidated statements of income.
NOTE 10  Reinsurance Primary components of our property casualty reinsurance assumed operations include involuntary and voluntary assumed as well as contracts from our reinsurance assumed operations, known as Cincinnati Re. Primary components of our ceded reinsurance include a property per risk treaty, propertyexcess treaty, casualty per occurrence treaty, casualty excess treaty, property catastrophe treaty and catastrophe bonds and retrocessions on our reinsurance assumed operations. Managements decisions about the appropriate level of risk retention are affected by various factors, including changes in our underwriting practices, capacity to retain risks and reinsurance market conditions.
The table below includes our net written consolidated property casualty insurance premiums on assumed and ceded business: (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Direct written premiums $ 4,646 $ 4,461 $ 4,309 Assumed written premiums 103 77 11 Ceded written premiums (169 ) (177 ) (177 ) Net written premiums $ 4,580 $ 4,361 $ 4,143 Our consolidated statements of income include earned consolidated property casualty insurance premiums on assumed and ceded business: (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Direct earned premiums $ 4,567 $ 4,396 $ 4,209 Assumed earned premiums 77 29 12 Ceded earned premiums (162 ) (154 ) (176 ) Earned premiums $ 4,482 $ 4,271 $ 4,045 Our consolidated statements of income include incurred consolidated property casualty insurance loss and loss expenses on assumed and ceded business: (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Direct incurred loss and loss expenses $ 2,874 $ 2,596 $ 2,661 Assumed incurred loss and loss expenses 43 12 6 Ceded incurred loss and loss expenses (56 ) (36 ) (40 ) Incurred loss and loss expenses $ 2,861 $ 2,572 $ 2,627 Our change in ceded incurred compared to prior years resulted primarily from increased retrocessions of Cincinnati Re.
Our life insurance company purchases reinsurance for protection of a portion of risks that are written. Primary components of our life reinsurance programinclude individual mortality coverage, aggregate catastrophe and accidental death coverage in excess of certain deductibles.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 151 Our consolidated statements of income include earned life insurance premiums on cededbusiness: (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Direct earned premiums $ 290 $ 271 $ 259 Ceded earned premiums (62 ) (62 ) (61 ) Earned premiums $ 228 $ 209 $ 198 Our consolidated statements of income include life insurance contract holders' benefits incurred on cededbusiness: (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Direct contract holders' benefits incurred $ 303 $ 292 $ 299 Ceded contract holders' benefits incurred (57 ) (56 ) (70 ) Contract holders' benefits incurred $ 246 $ 236 $ 229 The ceded benefits incurred can vary depending on the type of life insurance policy held and the year the policy was issued.
NOTE 11  Income Taxes The significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities included in the consolidated balance sheets at December31 were asfollows: (Dollars in millions) At December 31, 2016 2015 Deferred tax assets: Loss and loss expense reserves $ 199 $ 191 Unearned premiums 158 151 Investments 5 25 Other 52 42 Total gross deferred tax assets 414 409 Deferred tax liabilities: Unrealized investment gains, net 907 719 Deferred acquisition costs 195 187 Life policy reserves 162 137 Other 15 4 Total gross deferred tax liabilities 1,279 1,047 Net deferred income tax liability $ 865 $ 638 Deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amount recognized for tax purposes.
Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance when management believes it is more likely than not that some, or all, of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.After considering all positive and negative evidence of taxable income in the carryback and carryforward periods as permitted by law, we believe it is more likely than not that all of the deferred tax asset will be realized.As a result, we have no valuation allowance as of December 31, 2016 and 2015.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 152 The differences between the 35 percent statutory federal income tax rate and our effective income tax rate were asfollows: (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Tax at statutory rate: $ 284 35.0 % $ 308 35.0 % $ 252 35.0 % Increase (decrease) resulting from: Tax-exempt income from municipal bonds (34 ) (4.2 ) (33 ) (3.7 ) (33 ) (4.6 ) Dividend received exclusion (33 ) (4.1 ) (32 ) (3.6 ) (29 ) (4.0 ) Other 4 0.5 4 0.3 6 0.8 Provision for income taxes $ 221 27.2 % $ 247 28.0 % $ 196 27.2 % The provision for federal income taxes is based upon filing a consolidated income tax return for the company and its subsidiaries. As of December31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , we had no operating or capital loss carryforwards.
Unrecognized Tax Benefits As a result of positions either taken in our 2013 through 2015 federal tax returns filed with the IRS or expected to be taken in the 2016 filing, we believe it is more likely than not that our tax liability will be sustained upon examination by the IRS. We therefore carry no amount for unrecognized tax benefits for the years ended 2013 through 2016 .
The statute of limitations for federal tax purposes has closed for tax years 2012 and earlier. There are no federal returns under examination and we have not been notified of any upcoming IRS examinations.
Income taxes paid in our consolidated statements of cash flows are shown net of refunds received of $2 million in 2016 and an immaterial amount in 2015 and 2014.
In addition to our IRS filings, we file income tax returns with immaterial amounts in various statejurisdictions. Thestatute of limitations for state income tax purposes has closed for tax years 2012 and earlier. There are no state income returns under examination and we have not been notified of any upcoming state examinations.
NOTE 12  Net Income Per Common Share Basic earnings per share are computed based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per share are computed based on the weighted average number of common and dilutive potential common shares outstanding using the treasury stock method. The table shows calculations for basic and diluted earnings per share: (In millions except per share data) Years ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Numerator: Net incomebasic and diluted $ 591 $ 634 $ 525 Denominator: Basic weighted-average common shares outstanding 164.5 164.0 163.5 Effect of share-based awards: Stock options 1.1 1.0 1.0 Nonvested shares 0.9 0.6 0.6 Diluted weighted-average shares 166.5 165.6 165.1 Earnings per share: Basic $ 3.59 $ 3.87 $ 3.21 Diluted 3.55 3.83 3.18 Number of anti-dilutive share-based awards 0.3 0.4 0.7 Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 153 The current sources of dilution of our common shares are certain equity-based awards as discussed in Note17, Share-Based Associate Compensation Plans. The above table includes the number of anti-dilutive share-based awards at year-end 2016 , 2015 and 2014 . We did not include these share-based awards in the computation of net income per common share (diluted) because their exercise would have anti-dilutive effects.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 154 NOTE 13  Employee Retirement Benefits We sponsor a qualified defined benefit pension plan that we closed entry into for new associates as of June30,2008, and only participants 40 years of age or older as of August31, 2008, could elect to continue to participate. During 2008, we changed the form of retirement benefit we offersome associates to a company match on contributions to a 401(k) plan as further explained below. For participants remaining in the pension plan, we continue to fund future benefit obligations. Benefits for the defined benefit pension plan are based on years of credited service and compensation level. Contributions are based on the prescribed method defined in the Pension Protection Act. Our net periodic benefit cost is based on certain actuarial assumptions and also is composedof several components that are determined using the projected unit credit actuarial cost method. Thequalified plan has been amended to allow for distribution of vested balances to terminated participants.
We sponsor a defined contribution plan (401(k) plan) with matching company contributions totaling $14 million , $12 million and $11 million during the years 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Associates who are not accruing benefits underthe pension plan are eligible to receive the company match of up to 6 percent of cash compensation. We also pay operating expenses for the 401(k)plan. Participants vest in the company match for the 401(k)plan after three years of eligible service.
We maintain a supplemental executive retirement plan (SERP) with a benefit obligation of $15 million at year-end 2016 and $14 million at year-end 2015 , which is included in the projected benefit obligation. The company also makes available to a select group of associates the CFC Top Hat Savings Plan, a nonqualified deferred compensationplan, which had a fair value of $24 million and $21 million at December31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively.
Defined Benefit Pension Plan Assumptions We evaluate our pension plan assumptions annually and update them as necessary. This is a summary of the weighted-average assumptions used to determine our benefit obligations at December 31 for the plans: Qualified Pension Plan SERP 2016 2015 2016 2015 Discount rate 4.30 % 4.55 % 4.10 % 4.30 % Rate of compensation increase 2.75-3.25 2.75-3.25 2.75-3.25 2.75-3.25 To determine the discountrate for each plan, a theoretical settlement portfolio of high-quality rated corporate bonds was chosen to provide payments approximately matching the plans projected benefit payments. Asingle interest rate for each plan was determined resulting in a discounted value of the plan's benefit payments that equates to the market value of the selected bonds. The discount rate is reflective of current market interest rate conditions and our plan's liability characteristics. Based on this analysis, we decreased the rate from the prior year by 0.25 percentage points for the qualified pension plan and by 0.20 percentage points for the SERP. Compensation increase assumptions reflect anticipated rates of inflation, real return on wage growth and merit and promotionalincreases. The mortality assumption was updated in 2014 to the RP-2014 Employee Mortality Tables and RP-2014 Annuitant Mortality Tables for males and females projected generationally with Scale MP-2014. During 2016 and 2015, the 2014 mortality assumption was updated to include the generational projection using Scale MP-2016 and Scale MP-2015, respectively. The updated mortality table did not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements as our qualified plan assumes the majority of benefits will be paid in the form of lump sums.
This is a summary of the weighted-average assumptions used to determine our net periodic benefit cost for theplans: Qualified Pension Plan SERP 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 Discount rate 4.55 % 4.25 % 5.15 % 4.30 % 4.05 % 4.80 % Expected return on plan assets 7.25 7.25 7.25 n/a n/a n/a Rate of compensation increase 2.75-3.25 2.75-3.25 2.75-3.25 2.75-3.25 2.75-3.25 2.75-3.25 Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 155 The discount rate was increased by 0.30 percentage points for the qualified pension plan and 0.25 percentage points for the SERP due to market interest rate conditions at the beginning of 2016 . Thediscount rate assumptions for our benefit obligation generally track with high-quality rated corporate bond yields chosen in our theoretical settlement portfolio, and yearly adjustments reflect any changes to those bond yields. We believe the expected return on plan assets is representative of the expected long-term rate of return on these assets, which is consistent with 2016 expectations of interest rates and based partially on the fact that the plans common stock holdings pay dividends. We believe this rate is representative of the expected long-term rate of return on these plan assets. Wereview historical actual return on plan assets when determining our expected long-term rate of return. Totalportfolio return for 2016 was 16.6 percent and for 2015 was 0.6 percent. Our compensation increase assumptions in 2016 reflect anticipated rates of inflation, real return on wage growth and merit and promotionalincreases.
Benefit obligation activity using an actuarial measurement date for our qualified pension plan and SERP at December31follows: (Dollars in millions) At December 31, 2016 2015 Change in projected benefit obligation: Benefit obligation, January 1 $ 323 $ 319 Service cost 11 12 Interest cost 14 14 Actuarial loss (gain) 13 (3 ) Benefits paid (21 ) (19 ) Projected benefit obligation, December 31 $ 340 $ 323 Change in plan assets: Fair value of plan assets, January 1 $ 278 $ 288 Actual return on plan assets 45 3 Employer contribution 13 6 Benefits paid (21 ) (19 ) Fair value of plan assets, December 31 $ 315 $ 278 Funded status, December 31 $ (25 ) $ (45 ) Accumulated benefit obligation $ 309 $ 293 Our unfunded status improved for 2016 primarily due to better-than-expected return on plan assets offset by an increase in actuarial losses resulting largely from decreases in discount rate and lump sum rates.
A reconciliation follows of the funded status for our qualified plan and SERP at the end of the measurement period to the amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheets at December 31: (Dollars in millions) At December 31, 2016 2015 Pension amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheets: Other liabilities $ (25 ) $ (45 ) Total $ (25 ) $ (45 ) Pension amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income: Net actuarial loss $ 26 $ 41 Prior service cost  1 Total $ 26 $ 42 Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 156 Below are the components of our net periodic benefit cost, as well as other changes in plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in other comprehensive income for our qualified plan and SERP at December31: (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Net periodic benefit cost: Service cost $ 11 $ 12 $ 10 Interest cost 14 14 15 Expected return on plan assets (19 ) (18 ) (17 ) Amortization of actuarial loss and prior service cost 3 6 2 Other  1 3 Net periodic benefit cost $ 9 $ 15 $ 13 (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Other changes in plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in other comprehensive income: Current year actuarial (gain) loss $ (13 ) $ 13 $ 21 Amortization of actuarial loss (2 ) (6 ) (5 ) Current year prior service cost   2 Amortization of prior service cost (1 ) (1 )  Total recognized in other comprehensive (income) loss $ (16 ) $ 6 $ 18 The total recognized in net periodic benefit cost and other comprehensive income (loss) was a net gain of $7 million , net cost of $21 million , and a net cost of $31 million for the years ended December31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. The 2016 change in the amount recognized in other comprehensive income from 2015 is largely due to better-than-expected investment return partially offset with decreases in discount and lump sum rates. Theestimated costs to be amortized from AOCI into net periodic benefit cost over the next year for our plans are $2 million in actuarial loss and less than $1 million in prior service cost.
Defined Benefit Pension Plan Assets The pension plan assets are managed to maximize total return over the long term while providing sufficient liquidity and current return to satisfy the cash flow requirements of the plan. The plans day-to-day investment decisions are managed by our internal investment department; however, overall investment strategies are discussed with our employee benefits committee. Our investment strategy, currently driven by the low interest rate environment, is to weight our portfolio towards large-cap, high-quality, dividend-growing equities that we have historically favored. Asour plan matures and interest rates normalize, we expect a greater allocation to fixed-income securities to better align asset and liability market risks. Our fixed-maturity bond portfolio is investment grade. The plan does not engage in derivative transactions.
Excluding cash, during 2016 we held approximately 83 percent of our pension portfolio in domestic common equityinvestments. The remainder of the portfolioconsisted of 10 percent in states, municipalities and taxable political subdivisions fixed-maturity investments and 7 percent in domestic corporate fixed-maturity investments. Our common equity portfolio consisted of 22 percent in the information technology sector, 20 percent in the financial sector, 14 percent in the healthcare sector, 10 percent in the consumer staples sector, 10 percent in the consumer discretionary sector and 10 percent in the industrial sector at year-end 2016 . Noadditional sectors accounted for 10 percent or more of our common equity portfolio balance at year-end 2016 .
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 157 Investments in securities are valued based on the fair value hierarchy outlined in Note 3, Fair Value Measurements. The pension plan did not have any liabilities carried at fair value during the years ended December31, 2016 and 2015 . There have been no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 for the years ended December31, 2016 and 2015 . The following table shows the fair value hierarchy for those assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis at December31, 2016 and 2015 . Excluded from the table below is cash on hand of $11 million and $21 million at December31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively.
(Dollars in millions) Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (Level 1) Significant other observable inputs (Level 2) Significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) Total At December 31, 2016 Fixed maturities, available for sale: States, municipalities and political subdivisions $  $ 31 $  $ 31 Corporate securities  20  20 Total fixed maturities, available for sale  51  51 Common equities, available for sale 253   253 Total $ 253 $ 51 $  $ 304 At December 31, 2015 Fixed maturities, available for sale: States, municipalities and political subdivisions $  $ 32 $  $ 32 Corporate securities  13  13 Total fixed maturities, available for sale  45  45 Common equities, available for sale 212   212 Total $ 212 $ 45 $  $ 257 Our pension plan assets included 232,113 and 267,113 shares of the companys common stock at December31, 2016 and 2015 , which had a fair value of $18 million and $16 million at December31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. The defined benefit pension plan did not purchase any shares of our common stock during 2016 and 2015 . During 2016 and 2015, the pension plan sold 35,000 shares and 200,000 shares of the companys common stock, respectively. The company paid less than $1 million in 2016 and $1 million in 2015 in cash dividends on our common stock to the pension plan.
We contributed $5 million to our qualified plan during the first quarter of 2017 and estimate $12 million of benefit payments from the SERP during 2017 . We expect to make the following benefit payments for our qualified plan and SERP, reflecting expected futureservice: (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 - 2026 Expected future benefit payments $ 34 $ 23 $ 24 $ 26 $ 28 $ 148 Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 158 NOTE 14  Statutory Accounting Information Insurance companies statutory financial statements are presented on the basis of accounting practices prescribed or permitted by applicable state insurance departments of domicile. Insurance companies use statutory accounting practices (SAP) as recognized by various states. We have adopted the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) Accounting Practices and Procedures manual, version effective January1,2001, and updates through the current year as a component of prescribed or permitted practices by laws of the state of domicile. Theprimary differences between SAP and GAAP include the valuation of unrealized investment gains and losses, expensing of policy acquisition costs, actuarial assumptions for life insurance reserves and deferred income taxes based on differences in statutory and taxable income.
Statutory net income (loss) and capital and surplus are determined in accordance with SAP prescribed or permittedby insurance regulatory authorities for five legal entities, our insurance subsidiary and its four insurancesubsidiaries. Statutory capital and surplus for our insurance subsidiary, The Cincinnati Insurance Company, includes capital and surplus of its four insurance subsidiaries. All capital and surplus amounts exceed statutory risk-based capital requirements. The statutory net income (loss) and statutory capital and surplus are presented below: (Dollars in millions) Net income (loss) Capital and surplus Years ended December 31, At December 31, 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 The Cincinnati Insurance Company $ 434 $ 534 $ 436 $ 4,686 $ 4,412 The Cincinnati Casualty Company 11 12 12 360 337 The Cincinnati Indemnity Company 4 3 3 93 88 The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company 57 49 32 372 306 The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company 2 (11 ) (19 ) 200 208 NOTE 15  Transactions With Affiliated Parties We paid certain officers and directors, or insurance agencies of which they are shareholders, commissions of $7 million in 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , on premium volume of $44 million , $42 million and $41 million for 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively.
NOTE 16  Commitments and Contingent Liabilities In the ordinary course of conducting business, the company and its subsidiaries are named as defendants in various legal proceedings. Most of these proceedings are claims litigation involving the company's insurance subsidiaries in which the company is either defending or providing indemnity for third-party claims brought against insureds or litigating first-party coverage claims. The company accounts for such activity throughthe establishment of unpaid loss and loss expense reserves. We believe that the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to such ordinary-course claims litigation, after consideration of provisions made for potential losses and costs of defense, is immaterial to our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
The company and its subsidiaries also are occasionally involved in other legal and regulatory proceedings, some of which assert claims for substantial amounts. These actions include, among others, putative class actions seeking certification of a state or national class. Such proceedings have alleged, for example, breach of an alleged duty to search national databases to ascertain unreported deaths of insureds underlife insurance policies. The company's insurance subsidiaries also are occasionally parties to individual actions in which extra-contractual damages, punitive damages or penalties are sought, such asclaims alleging bad faith handling of insuranceclaims or writing unauthorized coverage or claims alleging discrimination by formeror current associates.
On a quarterly basis, we review these outstanding matters. Under current accounting guidance, we establish accruals when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and we can reasonably estimate its potential exposure. The company accounts for such probable and estimable losses, if any, through the establishment of legal expense reserves. Based on our quarterly review, we believe that our accruals for probable and estimable losses are reasonable and that the amounts accrued do not have a material effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. However, if any one or more of these matters results in a judgment against us or settlement for an amount that is significantly greater than the amount accrued, the resulting liability could have a material effect Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 159 on the company's consolidated results of operations or cash flows. Based on our most recent review, our estimate for any other matters for which the risk of loss is not probable, but more than remote, is immaterial.
NOTE 17  Share-Based Associate Compensation Plans Four equity compensation plans currently permit us to grant various types of equity awards. We currently grant incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options, service-based restricted stock units and performance-based restricted stock units to associates, including some with market-based performance objectives under our shareholder-approved plans. We also have a Holiday Stock Plan that permits annual awards of one share of common stock to each full-time associate for each full calendar year of service up to a maximum of 10 shares. Oneof our equity compensation plans permits us to grant stock to our outside directors as a component of their annual compensation. Weused treasury shares for share-based compensation award issues or exercises during2016 and 2015.
Share-based compensation cost after tax was $15 million , $14 million and $13 million for the years ended December31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. The related income tax benefit recognized was $8 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 and $6 million for both the years ended December31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Options exercisedduring the years ended December31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , had intrinsic value of $25 million , $15 million and $13 million , respectively. Intrinsic value is the market price less the exercise price. Options vested during the years ended December31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , had total intrinsic value of $11 million , $7 million and $9 million , respectively.
As of December31, 2016 , we had $26 million of unrecognized total compensation cost related to nonvested stock options and restricted stock unit awards. That cost will be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.8 years.
Stock Options Stock options are granted to associates at an exercise price equal to the fair value as determined by the average high and low sales price reported on the Nasdaq Global Select Market for the grant date and are exercisable over 10 -year periods. The stock options generally vest ratably over a three -year period. In determining the share-based compensation amounts, we estimate the fair value of each option granted on the date of grant using a binomial option-pricing model. Wemake the following assumptions to develop the binomial option-pricing model as follows:  Weighted-average expected term is based on historical experience of similar awards with consideration for current exercise trends.
Expected volatility is based on our stock price over a historical period that approximates the expectedterm.
Dividend yield is determined by dividing the annualized per share dividend by the stock price on the date of grant.
Risk-free rates are the implied yield currently available on zero-coupon U.S. Treasury issues with a remaining term approximating the expected term.
The following weighted average assumptions were used in determining fair value for option grants issued: 2016 2015 2014 Weighted-average expected term 8 years 8-9 years 8-9 years Expected volatility 24.88-25.75% 25.04-26.15% 25.20-26.22% Dividend yield 2.58-3.12% 3.52% 3.76% Risk-free rates 1.44-1.60% 1.94-2.01% 2.42-2.62% Weighted-average fair value of options granted during the period $13.21 $11.15 $10.16 Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 160 Below is a summary of option information for the year 2016: (Dollars in millions, shares in thousands) Shares Weighted- average exercise price Aggregate intrinsic value Weighted-average remaining contractual life Outstanding option shares at January 1, 2016 3,872 $ 39.78 Granted 359 61.47 Exercised (863 ) 38.64 Forfeited or expired (356 ) 44.66 Outstanding option shares at December 31, 2016 3,012 42.12 $ 101 5.05 years Options exercisable at end of period 2,319 $ 38.01 $ 88 4.04 years Cash received from the exercise of options was $21 million , $24 million and $22 million for the years ended December31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. We acquired 186,097 , 292,414 and 378,276 shares totaling $13 million , $16 million and $19 million , respectively, from associates in consideration for option exercises during 2016 , 2015 and 2014 . The weighted-average remaining contractual life for options expected to vest as of December31, 2016 , was 8.44 years .
Under all active shareholder approved plans, a total of 17.3 million shares were authorized to be granted. At December31, 2016 , 13.0 million shares remained available for future issuance under the plans. During 2016 , wegranted 18,769 shares of common stock to our directors for 2015 board service fees.
Restricted Stock Units Service-based restricted stock units granted to associates are valued at fair value of the shares on the date of grantless the present value of the dividends that holders of restricted stock units do not receive on the shares underlying the restricted stock units during the vesting period. Service-based restricted stock units generally cliff vest three years after the date of grant. During 2016 , we also granted restricted stock units which vest on a three year ratable vesting schedule. Service-based restricted stock units vested during the year had an intrinsic value of $23 million , $26 million and $14 million for the years ended December31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively.
We have performance-based awards that vest on the first day of March after a three -calendar-year performance period. Theseawards vest according to the level of three -year total shareholder return achieved compared with apeer group over a three -year performance period with payouts ranging from 0 to 200 percent for awards granted in 2014 , 2015 and 2016 .
Three -year total shareholder return is calculated by using annualized total return of a stock to an investor due to capital gain appreciation plus reinvestment of all dividends.
For the three-year performance period ended December 31, 2016, our total shareholder returned exceeded five of our nine peers. We expect payout of these shares at the target level to occur in March of 2017. During 2016, we issued 25,461 shares of performance-based restricted stock units at the threshold-level performance hurdle for the three-year performance period ended December31, 2015, as our total shareholder return exceeded four of 10 peers in our 2013 peer group. We issued 103,586 shares of performance-based restricted stock units during 2015 at the target-level performance hurdle for the three -year performance period ended December31, 2014, as we achieved a three -year total shareholder return that exceeded six of 10 peers in our 2012 peer group. Performance-based awards vested during the year had an intrinsic value of $6 million , $6 million and $3 million for the years ended December31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 161 These performance-based awards are valued using a Monte-Carlo valuation on the date of grant, which uses a risk-neutral framework to model future stock price movements based upon the risk-free rate of return, the volatilityof each peer and the pairwise correlations of each peer being modeled. Compensation cost is recognized regardless of whether the market-based performance objective has been satisfied. Wemake assumptions to develop the Monte-Carlo model as follows:  Correlation coefficients are based upon the stock price data used to calculate the historical volatilities. Thecorrelation coefficients are used to model the way the price of each entity's stock tends to move in relation to each other.
Expected volatility is based on each company's historical volatility using daily stock price observations.
Dividend yield has been modeled assuming dividends are reinvested in the issuing entity on a continuous basisand the holder of the award is not entitled to receive dividends paid during the performance period.
Risk-free rates are equal to the yield, as of the measurement date, of the zero-coupon U.S. Treasury bill that is commensurate with the performance measurement period.
The following assumptions were used in determining fair value for performance-based grants issued: 2016 2015 2014 Expected term 2.44-2.88 years 2.88 years 2.88 years Expected volatility 15.42-33.64% 13.78-34.69% 18.69-41.21% Dividend yield 2.58-3.12% 3.52% 3.74% Risk-free rates 0.77-0.87% 0.99% 0.66% Below is a summary of service-based and performance-based share information, assuming a target payout for performance-based shares, for the year 2016 : (Sharesinthousands) Service-based shares Weighted- averagegrant datefairvalue Performance-based shares Weighted- averagegrant datefairvalue Nonvested at January1, 2016 902 $ 43.15 256 $ 42.35 Granted 323 56.39 68 70.68 Vested (313 ) 40.99 (25 ) 44.82 Forfeited or canceled (24 ) 48.31 (63 ) 44.82 Nonvested at December31, 2016 888 48.59 236 49.64 Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 162 NOTE 18  Segment Information We operate primarily in two industries, property casualty insurance and life insurance. Our chief operating decision maker regularly reviews our reporting segments to make decisions about allocating resources and assessing performance. Our reporting segments are:  Commercial lines insurance  Personal lines insurance  Excess and surplus lines insurance  Life insurance  Investments We report as Other the noninvestment operations of the parent company and its noninsurer subsidiary, CFCInvestment Company and Cincinnati Re, our reinsurance assumed operations.
Revenues come primarily from unaffiliated customers:  All four insurance segments record revenues from insurance premiums earned.
Fee revenues for the commercial, personal and excess and surplus insurance segments primarily represent installment fees. Feerevenues for the life insurance segment represent separate account investment management fees.
Our investments revenues consist of pretax net investment income and realized investment gains andlosses.
Other revenues are primarily finance income and, beginning in 2015, earned premiums of Cincinnati Re.
Income or loss before income taxes for each segment is reported based on the nature of that business areasoperations:  Income before income taxes for the insurance segments is defined as underwriting profit or loss.
For commercial lines, personal lines and excess and surplus lines insurance segments, we calculate underwriting profit or loss as premiums earned and fee revenue minus loss and loss expenses and underwriting expenses incurred.
For the life insurance segment, we calculate underwriting profit or loss as premiums earned and fee revenue, minus contract holders benefits and expenses incurred, plus investment interest credited to contract holders.
Income before income taxes for the investments segment is net investment income plus realized investment gains and losses for investments of the entire company, minus investment interest credited to contract holders of the life insurance segment.
Loss before income taxes for the Other category is primarily due to interest expense from debt of the parent company, operating expenses of our headquarters and, beginning in 2015, premiums earned minus loss and loss expenses and underwriting expenses of Cincinnati Re.
Identifiable assets are used by each segment in its operations. We do not separately report the identifiable assets for the commercial, personal or excess and surplus lines segments because we do not use that measure to analyze the segments. We include all investment assets, regardless of ownership, in the investmentssegment.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 163 Segment information is summarized in the following table: (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Revenues: Commercial lines insurance Commercial casualty $ 1,050 $ 1,010 $ 938 Commercial property 867 815 728 Commercial auto 594 561 528 Workers' compensation 354 367 370 Other commercial 224 243 292 Commercial lines insurance premiums 3,089 2,996 2,856 Fee revenues 5 4 4 Total commercial lines insurance 3,094 3,000 2,860 Personal lines insurance Personal auto 543 506 476 Homeowner 486 463 443 Other personal 132 128 122 Personal lines insurance premiums 1,161 1,097 1,041 Fee revenues 4 3 2 Total personal lines insurance 1,165 1,100 1,043 Excess and surplus lines insurance 183 168 148 Fee revenues 1 1  Total excess and surplus lines insurance 184 169 148 Life insurance premiums 228 209 198 Fee revenues 5 5 6 Total life insurance 233 214 204 Investments Investment income, net of expenses 595 572 549 Realized investment gains, net 124 70 133 Total investment revenue 719 642 682 Other Cincinnati Re insurance premiums 49 10  Other 5 7 8 Total other revenue 54 17 8 Total revenues $ 5,449 $ 5,142 $ 4,945 Income (loss) before income taxes: Insurance underwriting results Commercial lines insurance $ 184 $ 345 $ 146 Personal lines insurance (12 ) (12 ) 10 Excess and surplus lines insurance 62 51 30 Life insurance 1 (2 ) (5 ) Investments 629 556 599 Other (52 ) (57 ) (59 ) Total income before income taxes $ 812 $ 881 $ 721 December 31, December 31, Identifiable assets: 2016 2015 Property casualty insurance $ 2,967 $ 2,717 Life insurance 1,366 1,325 Investments 15,569 14,485 Other 484 361 Total $ 20,386 $ 18,888 Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 164 NOTE 19  Quarterly Supplementary Data This table includes unaudited quarterly financial information for the years ended December31, 2016 and 2015 : (Dollars in millions except per share data) Quarter 1st 2nd 3rd 4th Full year 2016 Revenues $ 1,364 $ 1,371 $ 1,402 $ 1,312 $ 5,449 Income before income taxes 265 166 253 128 812 Net income 188 123 180 100 591 Net income per common sharebasic 1.14 0.75 1.09 0.61 3.59 Net income per common sharediluted 1.13 0.74 1.08 0.60 3.55 2015 Revenues $ 1,285 $ 1,316 $ 1,278 $ 1,263 $ 5,142 Income before income taxes 174 248 243 216 881 Net income 128 176 174 156 634 Net income per common sharebasic 0.78 1.07 1.06 0.95 3.87 Net income per common sharediluted 0.77 1.06 1.05 0.94 3.83 Note: The sum of the quarterly reported per share amounts may not equal the full year as each is computed independently. Revenues including realized investment gains and losses, which are integral to our financial results over the long term, may cause this value to fluctuate substantially because we have substantial discretion in the timing of investment sales. Also, applicable accounting standards require us to recognize gains and losses from certain changes in fair values of securities and embedded derivatives without actual realization of those gains andlosses.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 165 I TEM 9.       Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure We had no disagreements with the independent registered public accounting firm on accounting and financial disclosure during the last two fiscal years.
I TEM 9 A .       Controls and Procedures Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures  The company maintains disclosure controls and procedures (as that term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act)).
Any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives. The companys management, with the participation of the companys chief executive officer and chief financial officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of the companys disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2016. Based upon that evaluation, the companys chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that the design and operation of the companys disclosure controls and procedures provided reasonable assurance that the disclosure controls and procedures are effective to ensure that:  information required to be disclosed in the companys reports under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commissions rules and forms, and  such information is accumulated and communicated to the companys management, including its chiefexecutive officer and chief financial officer, as appropriate, to allow for timely decisions regarding required disclosures.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting  During the three months ended December 31, 2016, there were no changes in our internal controls over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. Managements Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting and the Report of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm are set forth in Item 8.
I TEM 9 B .         Other Information None Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 166 Part III Our Proxy Statement will be filed with the SEC no later than April 30, 2017, in preparation for the 2017Annual Meeting of Shareholders scheduled for May 6, 2017. As permitted in Paragraph G(3) of the General Instructions for Form 10-K, we are incorporating by reference to that statement portions of the information required by Part III as noted in Item10 through Item14 below.
I TEM 10.Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance a)     The following sections of our Proxy Statement for our Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 6,2017, are incorporated herein by reference: Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance, Information about the Board of Directors, and Governance of Your Company.
b)     Information about the Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers appeared in the 2004 Proxy Statement as an appendix and is available at cinfin.com/investors . OurCode of Ethics applies to those who are responsible for preparing and disclosing our financial information. This includes our chief executive officer, chief financial officer and others performing similar functions.
c)     Set forth below is information concerning the companys executive officers who are not also directors of the company, as of February24,2017.
Name and Age as of February24, 2017 Primary Title(s) and Business Responsibilities Since February 2012 Executive Officer Since Roger A. Brown, FSA, MAAA, CLU (45) Senior vice president and chief operating officer of The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company. Responsible for life insurance underwriting and operations.
2016 Teresa C. Cracas, Esq. (51) Chief risk officer and senior vice president of The Cincinnati Insurance Company. Responsible for strategic planning and risk management, including oversight of modeling for financial analysis, property casualty reserving, pricing and insurance regulatory filings, as well as reinsurance assumed operations .
2011 Donald J. Doyle, Jr., CPCU, AIM (50) Senior vice president of The Cincinnati Insurance Company. Responsible for excess and surplus lines underwriting andoperations.
2008 Martin F. Hollenbeck, CFA, CPCU (57) President and chief operating officer of CFC Investment Company, a commercial lease and finance subsidiary. Chiefinvestment officer and senior vice president, assistant secretary and assistant treasurer of Cincinnati Financial Corporation. Chief investment officer and senior vice president of The Cincinnati Insurance Company. Responsible for allinvestment operations.
2008 John S. Kellington (55) Chief information officer and senior vice president of TheCincinnati Insurance Company. Responsible for enterprise strategic technology and oversight of all technology activities.
2010 Lisa A. Love, Esq. (57) Senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary of Cincinnati Financial Corporation and The Cincinnati Insurance Company. Responsible for corporate legal, governance and compliance activities, including oversight of regulatory and consumer relations, shareholder services and contractadministration.
2011 Martin J. Mullen, CPCU (61) Chief claims officer and senior vice president of TheCincinnati Insurance Company. Responsible for oversight of all headquarters and field claims operations, including special investigations and claims administration.
2008 Jacob F. Scherer, Jr. (64) Chief insurance officer and executive vice president of TheCincinnati Insurance Company. Responsible for executive oversight of business and personal property casualty insurance sales, marketing, underwriting, related field services, relationships with independent agents and reinsurance programs. Executive vice president of business insurance until2012.
1995 Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 167 Name and Age as of February24, 2017 Primary Title(s) and Business Responsibilities Since February 2012 Executive Officer Since Michael J. Sewell, CPA (53) Chief financial officer, principal accounting officer and senior vice president of Cincinnati Financial Corporation and The Cincinnati Insurance Company, and treasurer of Cincinnati Financial Corporation. Responsible for oversight of all accounting, finance, financial reporting, purchasing and investor relations.
2011 Stephen M. Spray (50) Senior vice president of The Cincinnati Insurance Company. Responsible for commercial lines underwriting and operations, including oversight of target markets commercial products, management liability and surety insurance, machinery and equipment insurance, loss control and premiumaudit. Until 2016, responsible for sales and marketing, including management of field underwriters and independent agency relationships.
2012 Timothy L. Timmel, Esq. (68) Senior vice president of The Cincinnati Insurance Company. Responsible for operations includingoversight of administrative services, corporate communications, facilities maintenance and security, government relations, human resources, learning and development and legal litigation.
1997 William H. Van Den Heuvel (50) Senior vice president of The Cincinnati Insurance Company. Responsible for personal lines underwriting and operations. Chief operating officer and executive vice president for U.S. and Canada personal lines insurance at AIG until 2014. Western Zone executive and senior vice president for AIG Private Client Group until 2012.
2014 Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 168 I TEM 11.Executive Compensation The Compensation of Named Executive Officers and Directors, section of our Proxy Statement for our AnnualMeeting of Shareholders to be held May 6, 2017, is incorporated herein byreference. It includes the Report of the Compensation Committee, Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation and the Compensation Discussion and Analysis.
I TEM 12.Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters a)     The Security Ownership of Principal Shareholders and Management section of our Proxy Statement for our Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 6, 2017, is incorporated herein by reference.
b)     Information on securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans appears in Part II, Item5, Market for the Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Additional information on share-based compensation under our equity compensation plans is available in Item 8, Note 17 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
I TEM 13.Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence The following sections of our Proxy Statement for our Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May6, 2017, are incorporated herein by reference: Governance of Your Company  Director Independence and Governance of Your Company  Certain Relationships and Transactions.
I TEM 14.Principal Accounting Fees and Services The Audit-Related Matters, section of our Proxy Statement for our Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May6, 2017, is incorporated herein byreference. It includes the Proposal 2  Ratification of Selection of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, Report of the Audit Committee, Fees Billed by the IndependentRegistered Public Accounting Firm and Services Provided by the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 169 Part IV I TEM 15.Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules a)       Financial Statements  information contained in Part II, Item 8, of this report, Page 113 to Page 165 b)       Exhibits  see Index of Exhibits, Page 184 c)       Financial Statement Schedules Schedule I  Summary of Investments  Other Than Investments in Related Parties, Page 171 Schedule II  Condensed Financial Statements of Parent Company, Page 173 Schedule III  Supplementary Insurance Information, Page 177 Schedule IV  Reinsurance, Page 179 Schedule V  Valuation and Qualifying Accounts, Page 180 Schedule VI  Supplementary Information Concerning Property Casualty Insurance Operations, Page 181 Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 170 Schedule I Cincinnati Financial Corporation and Subsidiaries Summary of Investments - Other Than Investments in Related Parties (Dollars in millions) At December 31, 2016 Type of investment Cost or amortized cost Fair value Balance sheet Fixed maturities: States, municipalities and political subdivisions: The Cincinnati Insurance Company $ 2,900 $ 2,934 $ 2,934 The Cincinnati Casualty Company 149 150 150 The Cincinnati Indemnity Company 39 40 40 The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company 272 287 287 The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company 409 416 416 CSU Producer Resources Inc.
1 1 1 Total 3,770 3,828 3,828 Convertibles and bonds with warrants attached: The Cincinnati Insurance Company 5 5 5 Total 5 5 5 United States government: The Cincinnati Insurance Company 7 7 7 The Cincinnati Casualty Company 2 2 2 The Cincinnati Indemnity Company 1 1 1 Total 10 10 10 Government-sponsored enterprises: The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company 167 164 164 Total 167 164 164 Foreign government: The Cincinnati Insurance Company 10 10 10 Total 10 10 10 All other corporate bonds: The Cincinnati Insurance Company 2,727 2,836 2,836 The Cincinnati Casualty Company 118 123 123 The Cincinnati Indemnity Company 30 31 31 The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company 155 160 160 The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company 2,760 2,865 2,865 CSU Producer Resources Inc.
1 1 1 Cincinnati Financial Corporation 46 52 52 Total 5,837 6,068 6,068 Total fixed maturities $ 9,799 $ 10,085 $ 10,085 Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 171 Schedule I (continued) Cincinnati Financial Corporation and Subsidiaries Summary of Investments - Other Than Investments in Related Parties (Dollars in millions) At December 31, 2016 Type of investment Cost or amortized cost Fair value Balance sheet Equity securities: Common equities: The Cincinnati Insurance Company $ 1,600 $ 3,053 $ 3,053 The Cincinnati Casualty Company 50 105 105 The Cincinnati Indemnity Company 13 24 24 The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company 51 91 91 CSU Producer Resources Inc.
15 18 18 Cincinnati Financial Corporation 1,083 1,832 1,832 Total 2,812 5,123 5,123 Nonredeemable preferred equities: The Cincinnati Insurance Company 177 201 201 The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company 5 9 9 Cincinnati Financial Corporation 1 1 1 Total 183 211 211 Total equity securities $ 2,995 $ 5,334 $ 5,334 Other invested assets: Policy loans: The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company $ 31  $ 31 Private equity: Cincinnati Financial Corporation (1) 23  23 Real estate: The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company (1) 21 21 Cincinnati Financial Corporation (1) 6 6 Total other invested assets $ 81  $ 81 Total investments $ 12,875  $ 15,500 Notes to Schedule I: (1) These other invested assets are accounted for under the equity method.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 172 Schedule II Cincinnati Financial Corporation (parent company only) Condensed Balance Sheets (Dollars in millions) At December 31, 2016 2015 Assets Investments Fixed maturities, at fair value $ 52 $ 58 Equity securities, at fair value 1,833 1,583 Other invested assets 29 36 Total investments 1,914 1,677 Cash and cash equivalents 248 106 Equity in net assets of subsidiaries 5,790 5,482 Investment income receivable 8 6 Land, building and equipment, net, for company use (accumulated depreciation: 2016$111; 2015$118) 132 139 Income tax receivable 10 6 Other assets 35 21 Due from subsidiaries 106 107 Total assets $ 8,243 $ 7,544 Liabilities Dividends declared but unpaid $ 79 $ 75 Deferred federal income tax 252 173 Long-term debt 787 786 Other liabilities 65 83 Total liabilities 1,183 1,117 Shareholders' Equity Common stock 397 397 Paid-in capital 1,252 1,232 Retained earnings 5,037 4,762 Accumulated other comprehensive income 1,693 1,344 Treasury stock at cost (1,319 ) (1,308 ) Total shareholders' equity 7,060 6,427 Total liabilities and shareholders' equity $ 8,243 $ 7,544 This condensed financial information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes included in Part II, Item 8.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 173 Schedule II (continued) Cincinnati Financial Corporation (parent company only) Condensed Statements of Income (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Revenues Investment income, net of expenses $ 56 $ 53 $ 46 Realized investment (losses) and gains, net 27 (19 ) 34 Other revenue 15 15 16 Total revenues 98 49 96 Expenses Interest expense 52 52 52 Other expenses 27 28 28 Total expenses 79 80 80 Income (Loss) Before Income Taxes and Earnings of Subsidiaries 19 (31 ) 16 Benefit for income taxes (6 ) (23 ) (5 ) Net Income (Loss) Before Earnings of Subsidiaries 25 (8 ) 21 Increase in equity of subsidiaries 566 642 504 Net Income $ 591 $ 634 $ 525 This condensed financial information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes included in Part II, Item 8.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 174 Schedule II (continued) Cincinnati Financial Corporation (parent company only) Condensed Statements of Comprehensive Income (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Net Income $ 591 $ 634 $ 525 Other Comprehensive Income, Before Tax Unrealized gains and (losses) on investments available for sale 221 (111 ) 150 Unrealized gains and (losses) on investments held by subsidiaries 434 (444 ) 367 Reclassification adjustment for (losses) and gains included in net income (27 ) 19 (34 ) Reclassification adjustment for (gains) included in net income on subsidiaries (97 ) (89 ) (99 ) Unrealized (losses) and gains on other (6 )  7 Unrealized (losses) and gains on other subsidiaries (4 ) 13 (3 ) Unrealized gains and (losses) on investments available for sale, investments held by subsidiaries and other 521 (612 ) 388 Amortization of pension actuarial gains (losses) and prior service cost 16 (6 ) (18 ) Other comprehensive income (loss) before tax 537 (618 ) 370 Income taxes on above of other comprehensive income (loss) 188 (218 ) 130 Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax 349 (400 ) 240 Comprehensive Income $ 940 $ 234 $ 765 This condensed financial information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes included in Part II, Item 8.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 175 Schedule II (continued) Cincinnati Financial Corporation (parent company only) Condensed Statements of Cash Flows (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Cash Flows From Operating Activities Net income $ 591 $ 634 $ 525 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities: Depreciation and amortization 6 7 7 Realized investment losses and (gains), net (27 ) 19 (34 ) Dividends from subsidiaries 475 447 400 Changes in: Increase in equity of subsidiaries (566 ) (642 ) (504 ) Investment income receivable (2 )  (1 ) Current federal income taxes (4 ) (7 ) 3 Deferred income tax 8 (10 ) (6 ) Other assets (4 ) (3 ) 20 Other liabilities (1 ) 13 (14 ) Intercompany receivable for operations 20 16 22 Net cash provided by operating activities 496 474 418 Cash Flows From Investing Activities Call or maturity of fixed maturities 5 8 4 Sale of equity securities 135 54 112 Purchase of equity securities (175 ) (110 ) (225 ) Investment in buildings and equipment, net (2 )  (2 ) Change in other invested assets, net 6 1 4 Net cash used by investing activities (31 ) (47 ) (107 ) Cash Flows From Financing Activities Payments on notes payable   (55 ) Payment of cash dividends to shareholders (306 ) (366 ) (278 ) Shares acquired - share repurchase authorization (39 ) (53 ) (21 ) Proceeds from stock options exercised 21 24 22 Other 1 2 2 Net cash used in financing activities (323 ) (393 ) (330 ) Net change in cash and cash equivalents 142 34 (19 ) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 106 72 91 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year $ 248 $ 106 $ 72 This condensed financial information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes included in Part II, Item 8.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 176 Schedule III Cincinnati Financial Corporation and Subsidiaries Supplementary Insurance Information (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Deferred policy acquisition costs: Commercial lines insurance $ 271 $ 264 $ 257 Personal lines insurance 110 103 108 Excess and surplus lines insurance 16 15 14 Cincinnati Re 11 6  Total property casualty insurance 408 388 379 Life insurance 229 228 199 Total $ 637 $ 616 $ 578 Gross future policy benefits, losses, claims and expense losses: Commercial lines insurance $ 4,179 $ 3,925 $ 3,797 Personal lines insurance 569 498 439 Excess and surplus lines insurance 241 227 202 Cincinnati Re 46 10  Total property casualty insurance 5,035 4,660 4,438 Life insurance 2,693 2,605 2,519 Total (1) $ 7,728 $ 7,265 $ 6,957 Gross unearned premiums: Commercial lines insurance $ 1,510 $ 1,472 $ 1,441 Personal lines insurance 629 593 562 Excess and surplus lines insurance 93 87 78 Cincinnati Re 74 48  Total property casualty insurance 2,306 2,200 2,081 Life insurance 1 1 1 Total (1) $ 2,307 $ 2,201 $ 2,082 Other policy claims and benefits payable: Commercial lines insurance $  $  $  Personal lines insurance    Excess and surplus lines insurance    Cincinnati Re    Total property casualty insurance    Life insurance 28 36 25 Total (1) $ 28 $ 36 $ 25 Earned premiums: Commercial lines insurance $ 3,089 $ 2,996 $ 2,856 Personal lines insurance 1,161 1,097 1,041 Excess and surplus lines insurance 183 168 148 Cincinnati Re 49 10  Total property casualty insurance 4,482 4,271 4,045 Life insurance 228 209 198 Total $ 4,710 $ 4,480 $ 4,243 Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 177 Schedule III (continued) Cincinnati Financial Corporation and Subsidiaries Supplementary Insurance Information (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Investment income, net of expenses: Commercial lines insurance $  $  $  Personal lines insurance    Excess and surplus lines insurance    Cincinnati Re    Total property casualty insurance (2) 384 368 358 Life insurance 155 150 144 Total $ 539 $ 518 $ 502 Benefits, claims losses and settlement expenses: Commercial lines insurance $ 1,928 $ 1,708 $ 1,812 Personal lines insurance 840 789 740 Excess and surplus lines insurance 68 70 75 Cincinnati Re 25 5  Total property casualty insurance 2,861 2,572 2,627 Life insurance 246 236 229 Total $ 3,107 $ 2,808 $ 2,856 Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs: Commercial lines insurance $ 570 $ 552 $ 537 Personal lines insurance 209 210 209 Excess and surplus lines insurance 31 28 24 Cincinnati Re 10 2  Total property casualty insurance 820 792 770 Life insurance 43 37 37 Total (3) $ 863 $ 829 $ 807 Underwriting, acquisition and insurance expenses: Commercial lines insurance $ 412 $ 395 $ 365 Personal lines insurance 128 113 84 Excess and surplus lines insurance 23 20 19 Cincinnati Re 6 1  Total property casualty insurance 569 529 468 Life insurance 33 29 26 Total (3) $ 602 $ 558 $ 494 Net written premiums: Commercial lines insurance $ 3,122 $ 3,025 $ 2,922 Personal lines insurance 1,198 1,128 1,068 Excess and surplus lines insurance 189 175 153 Cincinnati Re 71 33  Total property casualty insurance 4,580 4,361 4,143 Accident health insurance 2 2 3 Total $ 4,582 $ 4,363 $ 4,146 Notes to Schedule III: (1) The sum of gross future policy benefits, losses, claims and expense losses, gross unearned premium and other policy claims and benefits payable is equal to the sum of Loss and loss expense reserves, Life policy reserves and investment contract reserves and Unearned premiums reported in the companys consolidated balance sheets.
(2) This segment information is not regularly allocated to segments and reviewed by company management in making decisions about resources to be allocated to the segments or to assess their performance.
(3) The sum of amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and other underwriting and insurance expenses is equal to Underwriting, acquisition and insurance expenses in the consolidated statements ofincome.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 178 Schedule IV Cincinnati Financial Corporation and Subsidiaries Reinsurance (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Gross amounts: Life insurance in force $ 95,533 $ 91,451 $ 88,045 Earned premiums Commercial lines insurance $ 3,180 $ 3,088 $ 2,973 Personal lines insurance 1,195 1,131 1,080 Excess and surplus lines insurance 192 177 156 Cincinnati Re    Total property casualty insurance 4,567 4,396 4,209 Life insurance 290 271 259 Total $ 4,857 $ 4,667 $ 4,468 Ceded amounts to other companies: Life insurance in force $ 38,724 $ 38,716 $ 37,689 Earned premiums Commercial lines insurance $ 98 $ 102 $ 128 Personal lines insurance 35 35 40 Excess and surplus lines insurance 9 9 8 Cincinnati Re 20 8  Total property casualty insurance 162 154 176 Life insurance 62 62 61 Total $ 224 $ 216 $ 237 Assumed amounts from other companies: Life insurance in force $  $  $  Earned premiums Commercial lines insurance $ 7 $ 10 $ 11 Personal lines insurance 1 1 1 Excess and surplus lines insurance    Cincinnati Re 69 18  Total property casualty insurance 77 29 12 Life insurance    Total $ 77 $ 29 $ 12 Net amounts: Life insurance in force $ 56,808 $ 52,735 $ 50,356 Earned premiums Commercial lines insurance $ 3,089 $ 2,996 $ 2,856 Personal lines insurance 1,161 1,097 1,041 Excess and surplus lines insurance 183 168 148 Cincinnati Re 49 10  Total property casualty insurance 4,482 4,271 4,045 Life insurance 228 209 198 Total $ 4,710 $ 4,480 $ 4,243 Percentage of amounts assumed to net: Life insurance in force  %  %  % Earned premiums Commercial lines insurance 0.2 % 0.3 % 0.4 % Personal lines insurance 0.1 0.1 0.1 Excess and surplus lines insurance    Cincinnati Re 140.8 188.0  Total property casualty insurance 1.7 0.7 0.5 Life insurance    Total 1.6 0.7 0.5 Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 179 Schedule V Cincinnati Financial Corporation and Subsidiaries Valuation and Qualifying Accounts (Dollars in millions) At December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Allowance for doubtful receivables: Beginning balance, January 1 $ 4 $ 3 $ 2 Additions charged to costs and expenses 5 3 2 Deductions (4 ) (2 ) (1 ) Ending balance, December 31 $ 5 $ 4 $ 3 Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 180 Schedule VI Cincinnati Financial Corporation and Subsidiaries Supplementary Information Concerning Property Casualty Insurance Operations (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Deferred policy acquisition costs: Commercial lines insurance $ 271 $ 264 $ 257 Personal lines insurance 110 103 108 Excess and surplus lines insurance 16 15 14 Cincinnati Re 11 6  Total $ 408 $ 388 $ 379 Reserves for unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses: Commercial lines insurance $ 4,179 $ 3,925 $ 3,797 Personal lines insurance 569 498 439 Excess and surplus lines insurance 241 227 202 Cincinnati Re 46 10  Total $ 5,035 $ 4,660 $ 4,438 Reserve discount deducted $  $  $  Gross unearned premiums: Commercial lines insurance $ 1,510 $ 1,472 $ 1,441 Personal lines insurance 629 593 562 Excess and surplus lines insurance 93 87 78 Cincinnati Re 74 48  Total $ 2,306 $ 2,200 $ 2,081 Earned premiums: Commercial lines insurance $ 3,089 $ 2,996 $ 2,856 Personal lines insurance 1,161 1,097 1,041 Excess and surplus lines insurance 183 168 148 Cincinnati Re 49 10  Total $ 4,482 $ 4,271 $ 4,045 Investment income, net of expenses: Commercial lines insurance $  $  $  Personal lines insurance    Excess and surplus lines insurance    Cincinnati Re    Total (1) $ 384 $ 368 $ 358 Note to Schedule VI: (1) This segment information is not regularly allocated to segments and not reviewed by company management in making decisions about resources to be allocated to the segments or to assess their performance.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 181 Schedule VI (continued) Cincinnati Financial Corporation and Subsidiaries Supplementary Information Concerning Property Casualty Insurance Operations (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Loss and loss expenses incurred related to current accident year: Commercial lines insurance $ 2,057 $ 1,862 $ 1,869 Personal lines insurance 844 784 752 Excess and surplus lines insurance 102 105 104 Cincinnati Re 26 5  Total $ 3,029 $ 2,756 $ 2,725 Loss and loss expenses incurred related to prior accident years: Commercial lines insurance $ (129 ) $ (154 ) $ (57 ) Personal lines insurance (4 ) 5 (12 ) Excess and surplus lines insurance (34 ) (35 ) (29 ) Cincinnati Re (1 )   Total $ (168 ) $ (184 ) $ (98 ) Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs: Commercial lines insurance $ 570 $ 552 $ 537 Personal lines insurance 209 210 209 Excess and surplus lines insurance 31 28 24 Cincinnati Re 10 2  Total $ 820 $ 792 $ 770 Paid loss and loss expenses: Commercial lines insurance $ 1,675 $ 1,575 $ 1,666 Personal lines insurance 771 731 717 Excess and surplus lines insurance 55 43 30 Cincinnati Re 2   Total $ 2,503 $ 2,349 $ 2,413 Net written premiums: Commercial lines insurance $ 3,122 $ 3,025 $ 2,922 Personal lines insurance 1,198 1,128 1,068 Excess and surplus lines insurance 189 175 153 Cincinnati Re 71 33  Total $ 4,580 $ 4,361 $ 4,143 Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 182 Signatures Pursuant to the requirements of Section13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Cincinnati Financial Corporation /S/ Michael J. Sewell By:Michael J. Sewell, CPA Title:Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President and Treasurer (Principal Accounting Officer) Date: February 24, 2017 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been duly signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
Signature Title Date /S/ Kenneth W. Stecher Chairman of the Board February 24, 2017 Kenneth W. Stecher /S/ Steven J. Johnston President, Chief Executive Officer and Director February 24, 2017 Steven J. Johnston /S/ Michael J. Sewell Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President and Treasurer February 24, 2017 Michael J. Sewell /S/ William F. Bahl Director February 24, 2017 William F. Bahl /S/ Gregory T. Bier Director February 24, 2017 Gregory T. Bier /S/ Dirk J. Debbink Director February 24, 2017 Dirk J. Debbink /S/ Linda W. Clement-Holmes Director February 24, 2017 Linda W. Clement-Holmes /S/ Kenneth C. Lichtendahl Director February 24, 2017 Kenneth C. Lichtendahl /S/ W. Rodney McMullen Director February 24, 2017 W. Rodney McMullen /S/ David P. Osborn Director February 24, 2017 David P. Osborn /S/ Gretchen W. Price Director February 24, 2017 Gretchen W. Price /S/ John J. Schiff, Jr.
Director February 24, 2017 John J. Schiff, Jr.
/S/ Thomas R. Schiff Director February 24, 2017 Thomas R. Schiff /S/ Douglas S. Skidmore Director February 24, 2017 Douglas S. Skidmore /S/ John F. Steele, Jr.
Director February 24, 2017 John F. Steele, Jr.
/S/ Larry R. Webb Director February 24, 2017 Larry R. Webb Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 183 Index of Exhibits Exhibit No.
Exhibit Description 3.1 Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Cincinnati Financial Corporation (incorporated by reference to the companys 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K dated February 25, 2011, Exhibit 3.1) 3.2 Amendment to Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Cincinnati Financial Corporation (incorporated by reference to the companys Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2016, Exhibit 3.2) (File No. 000-04604) 3.3 Regulations of Cincinnati Financial Corporation, as amended through May 1, 2010 (incorporated by reference to the companys Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2010, Exhibit 3.2) (File No. 000-04604) 4.1 Indenture with The Bank of New York Trust Company (incorporated by reference to the companys Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 2, 2004, filed with respect to the issuance of the companys 6.125% Senior Notes due November 1, 2034) 4.2 Supplemental Indenture with The Bank of New York Trust Company (incorporated by reference to the companys Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 2, 2004, filed with respect to the issuance of the companys 6.125% Senior Notes due November 1, 2034) 4.3 Second Supplemental Indenture with The Bank of New York Trust Company (incorporated by reference to the companys Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 9, 2005, filed with respect to the completion of the companys exchange offer and rescission offer for its 6.90% senior debentures due 2028) 4.4 Form of 6.125% Exchange Note Due 2034 (included in Exhibit 4.2) 4.5 Form of 6.92% Debentures Due 2028 (included in Exhibit 4.3) 4.6 Indenture with the First National Bank of Chicago (subsequently assigned to The Bank of New York Trust Company) (incorporated by reference to the companys registration statement on Form S-3 effective May22,1998 (FileNo. 333-51677)) 4.7 Form of 6.90% Debentures Due 2028 (included in Exhibit 4.6) 10.1 Cincinnati Financial Corporation Directors Stock Plan of 2009 (incorporated by reference to the companys definitive Proxy Statement dated March 20, 2009) 10.2 Cincinnati Financial Corporation Stock Option Plan No. VII (incorporated by reference to the companys definitive Proxy Statement dated March 8, 2002) (File No. 000-04604) 10.3 Cincinnati Financial Corporation Annual Incentive Compensation Plan of 2009, as amended January 31, 2014 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 filed with the companys Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 3, 2014) 10.4 Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2006 Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to the companys definitive Proxy Statement dated March 30, 2007) 10.5 Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2012 Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to the companys definitive Proxy Statement dated March 16, 2012) 10.6 Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2016 Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to the companys Definitive Proxy Statement dated March 16, 2016, Appendix B) 10.7 First Amendment of Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2016 Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 filed with the Companys current report on Form 8-K dated April 11, 2016) 10.8 Amended and Restated Cincinnati Financial Corporation Supplemental Retirement Plan dated January1, 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 filed with the companys Annual Report on Form 10-K dated February 27, 2013) 10.9 Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement for Stock Option Plan VII (incorporated by reference to Exhibit10.1 filed with the companys Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 20, 2006) 10.10 Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement for Stock Option Plan VII (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 filed with the companys Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 20, 2006) 10.11 Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement for the 2006 Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 filed with the companys Current Report on Form 8-K dated October20,2006) 10.12 Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement for the 2006 Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 filed with the companys Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 20, 2006) Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 184 Exhibit No.
Exhibit Description 10.13 Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (performance-based) for use under the Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2006 Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 filed with the companys Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 18, 2008) 10.14 Form of Incentive Compensation Agreement for the Cincinnati Financial Corporation Incentive Compensation Plan of 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 filed with the companys Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 16, 2009) 10.15 Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement for the Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2012 Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 filed with the companys Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 21, 2013) 10.16 Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement for the Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2012 Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 filed with the companys Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 21, 2013) 10.17 Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (service based) for the Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2012 Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 filed with the companys Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 21, 2013) 10.18 Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (service based/ratable) for the Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2012 Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 filed with the companys Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 13, 2015) 10.19 Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (performance based) for the Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2012 Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 filed with the companys Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 21, 2013) 10.20 Form of Incentive Compensation Agreement for the Cincinnati Financial Corporation Incentive Compensation Plan of 2009 (as amended January 1, 2014) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 filed with the companys Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 30, 2017) 10.21 Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement for the Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2012 Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 filed with the companys Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 30, 2017) 10.22 Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement for the Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2012 Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 filed with the companys Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 30, 2017) 10.23 Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (service based/cliff) for the Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2012 Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 filed with the companys Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 30, 2017) 10.24 Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (service based/ratable) for the Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2012 Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 filed with the companys Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 30, 2017) 10.25 Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (performance-based) for the Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2012 Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 filed with the companys Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 30, 2017) 10.26 Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement for the Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2016 Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 filed with the companys Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 30, 2017) 10.27 Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement for the Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2016 Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 filed with the companys Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 30, 2017) 10.28 Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (service based/cliff) for the Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2016 Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 filed with the companys Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 30, 2017) 10.29 Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (service based/ratable) for the Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2016 Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 filed with the companys Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 30, 2017) 10.30 Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (performance based) for the Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2016 Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 filed with the companys Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 30, 2017) 10.31 Annual Incentive Compensation Award agreement granted to Steven J. Johnston on February 12, 2016 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 filed with the companys Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 18, 2016) 10.32 Annual Incentive Compensation Award agreement granted to Jacob F. Scherer, Jr. on February 12, 2016 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 filed with the companys Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 18, 2016) Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page 185 Exhibit No.