http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1090872/000109087213000029/a-10312013x10k.html
12080000000.0
A_2013-12-19_10-K.txt

10-K 1 a-10312013x10k.htm 10-K A-10.31.2013-10K UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 _____________________________________________________________ Form10-K _____________________________________________________________ (Mark One) x ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF1934 For the fiscal year ended October31, 2013 or o TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF1934 For the transition period fromto Commission File Number: 001-15405 _____________________________________________________________ Agilent Technologies,Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 77-0518772 State or other jurisdiction of Incorporation or organization I.R.S. Employer Identification No.
Address of principal executive offices: 5301 Stevens Creek Blvd., Santa Clara, California 95051 Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (408)345-8886 Securities registered pursuant to Section12(b) of the Act: Title of each class Name of each exchange on which registered Common Stock par value $0.01 per share New York Stock Exchange,Inc.
Securities registered pursuant to Section12(g) of the Act: None _____________________________________________________________ Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule405 of the Securities Act. Yes x No  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section13 or Section15(d) of the Act. Yes  No x Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1)has filed all reports required to be filed by Section13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2)has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90days. Yes x No  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule405 of RegulationS-T (232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes x No  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item405 of RegulationS-K (229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in PartIII of this Form10-K or any amendment to this Form10-K.
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
Large accelerated filer x Accelerated filer  Non-accelerated filer  Smaller reporting company  (Do not check if a smaller reporting company) Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes  No x The aggregate market value of the registrant's common equity held by non-affiliates as of April30, 2013, was approximately $12.08billion. Shares of stock held by officers, directors and 5percent or more stockholders have been excluded in that such persons may be deemed to be affiliates. This determination of affiliate status is not necessarily a conclusive determination for other purposes.
As of December1, 2013, there were 331,808,500 outstanding shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share.
_____________________________________________________________ DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE Document Description 10-K Part Portions of the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "Proxy Statement") to be held on March19, 2014, and to be filed pursuant to Regulation14A within 120days after registrant's fiscal year ended October31, 2013 are incorporated by reference into PartIII of this Report III Table of Contents TABLE OF CONTENTS Page Forward-Looking Statements 3 PART I Item1 Business 3 Item1A Risk Factors 18 Item1B Unresolved Staff Comments 28 Item2 Properties 28 Item3 Legal Proceedings 28 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 29 PART II Item5 Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 29 Item6 Selected Financial Data 30 Item7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 31 Item7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 52 Item8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 53 Item9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 106 Item9A Controls and Procedures 106 Item9B Other Information 106 PART III Item10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 107 Item11 Executive Compensation 107 Item12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 107 Item13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 108 Item14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 108 PART IV Item15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 108 2 Table of Contents Forward-Looking Statements This report contains forward-looking statements including, without limitation, statements regarding trends, seasonality, cyclicality and growth in, and drivers of, the markets we sell into, our strategic direction, our future effective tax rate and tax valuation allowance, earnings from our foreign subsidiaries, remediation activities, new product and service introductions, the ability of our products to meet market needs, changes to our manufacturing processes, the use of contract manufacturers, the impact of local government regulations on our ability to pay vendors or conduct operations, our liquidity position, our ability to generate cash from operations, growth in our businesses, our investments, the potential impact of adopting new accounting pronouncements, our financial results, our purchase commitments, our contributions to our pension plans, the selection of discount rates and recognition of any gains or losses for our benefit plans, our cost-control activities, savings and headcount reduction recognized from our restructuring programs and other cost saving initiatives, uncertainties relating to Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") and other regulatory approvals, the integration of our acquisitions and other transactions, the separation of the electronic measurement business, our stock repurchase program, our declared dividends, our transition to lower-cost regions, and the existence of economic instability, that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to various factors, including those discussed in Item1A and elsewhere in this Form10-K.
PART I Item1.
Business Overview Agilent Technologies,Inc. (we, Agilent or the company), incorporated in Delaware in May 1999, is the world's premier measurement company providing core bio-analytical and electronic measurement solutions to the life sciences, diagnostics and genomics, chemical analysis, communications and electronics industries.
On September 19, 2013, Agilent announced plans to separate into two publicly traded companies, one comprising of the life sciences, diagnostics and chemical analysis businesses that will retain the Agilent name and the other that will be comprised of the electronic measurement business ("EM"). The separation is expected to occur through a tax-free pro rata spin off of the EM company to Agilent shareholders and is expected to be completed early in November 2014. We expect to incur pre-separation expenses of $100 million in fiscal 2014.
In addition to the announcement to separate into two companies, we formed a new operating segment in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2013. The new life sciences and diagnostics segment was formed by the combination of the life sciences business plus the diagnostics and genomics business. Following this reorganization, Agilent has three business segments comprised of the life sciences and diagnostics business, the chemical analysis business and the electronic measurement business.  The historical segment financial information for the life sciences and diagnostics segment has been recast to conform to this new reporting structure in our financial statements.
Our life sciences and diagnostics business focuses on the pharmaceutical, academic and government, bio-agriculture, food safety, clinical markets, biotechnology and contract research organization industries. Our chemical analysis business focuses on the petrochemical, environmental, forensics and food safety industries. Our electronic measurement business addresses the communications, electronics and other industries. In addition to our three businesses, we conduct centralized manufacturing and order fulfillment through Agilent Order Fulfillment ("AOF") as well as research through Agilent Technologies Laboratories (Agilent Labs). Each of our three businesses, AOF and Agilent Labs, is supported by our global infrastructure organization, which provides shared services in the areas of finance, information technology, legal, workplace services and human resources.
On June 21, 2012, we acquired Dako through the purchase of 100% of the share capital of Dako, a limited liability company incorporated under the laws of Denmark, under the share purchase agreement, dated May 16, 2012. Dako provides antibodies, reagents, scientific instruments and software primarily to customers in pathology laboratories. As a result of the acquisition, Dako has become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Agilent. The consideration paid was approximately $2,143 million, of which $1,400 million was paid directly to the seller and $743 million was paid to satisfy the outstanding debt of Dako.  Agilent funded the acquisition using existing cash.
We sell our products primarily through direct sales, but we also utilize distributors, resellers, manufacturer's representatives, telesales and electronic commerce. Of our total net revenue of $6.8billion for the fiscal year ended October31, 2013, we generated 30percent in the U.S. and 70 percent outside the U.S. As of October31, 2013, we employed approximately 20,600 people 3 Table of Contents worldwide. Our primary research and development and manufacturing sites are in California, Colorado and Delaware in the U.S. and in Australia, China, Denmark, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Poland, Singapore and the United Kingdom.
The net revenue, income from operations and assets by business segment, as of and for the fiscal year ended October31, 2013 and for each of the past three years are shown in Note21, "Segment Information", to our consolidated financial statements, which we incorporate by reference herein.
Life Sciences and Diagnostics Business Our life sciences and diagnostics business provides application-focused solutions that include reagents, instruments, software, consumables, and services that enable customers to identify, quantify and analyze the physical and biological properties of substances and products, as well as enable customers in the clinical and life sciences research areas to interrogate samples at the molecular level. Key product categories include: liquid chromatography ("LC") systems, columns and components; liquid chromatography mass spectrometry ("LCMS") systems; laboratory software and informatics systems; laboratory automation and robotic systems; dissolution testing; nucleic acid solutions; Nuclear Magnetic Resonance ("NMR"), Magnetic Resonance Imaging ("MRI"), and X-Ray Diffraction (XRD) systems; services and support for the aforementioned products;  immunohistochemistry (IHC); In Situ Hybridization (ISH); Hematoxylin and Eosin (H&E) staining; special staining, DNA mutation detection; genotyping; gene copy number determination; identification of gene rearrangements; DNA methylation profiling; gene expression profiling; next generation sequencing (NGS) target enrichment; and automated gel electrophoresis-based sample analysis systems. We also collaborate with a number of major pharmaceutical companies to develop new potential pharmacodiagnostics, also called companion diagnostics, with the potential of identifying patients most likely to benefit from a specific targeted therapy.
We employed approximately 6,100 people as of October31, 2013 in our life sciences and diagnostics business. This business generated revenue of $2.3billion in fiscal 2013, $2.0billion in fiscal 2012 and $1.8billion in fiscal 2011.
Life Sciences and Diagnostics Markets Our life sciences and diagnostics business focuses primarily on the following three markets: The Pharma, Biotech, CRO& CMO Market.
This market consists of for-profit companies who participate across the pharmaceutical value chain in the areas of therapeutic research, discovery& development, clinical trials, manufacturing and quality assurance and quality control. One sub-segment of this market is core and emerging pharmaceutical companies (pharma). A second sub-segment includes biotechnology companies (biotech), contract research organizations (CROs) and contract manufacturing organizations (CMOs). Biotech companies and, to a somewhat lesser extent, CROs and CMOs typically participate in specific points in the pharmaceutical industry value chain. Additionally, due to the relatively low drug efficacy within oncology, pharma companies are partnering with diagnostic companies to bring validated tests to the market with their new drugs.
The Academic and Government Market.
This market consists primarily of not-for-profit organizations and includes academic institutions, large government institutes and privately funded organizations. The academic and government research market plays an influential role in technology adoption and therapeutic developments for pharmaceutical and molecular diagnostics companies. After decades of investment in basic biomedical research by government funding bodies, the focus has widened to include translational research- multidisciplinary scientific efforts directed at accelerating therapy development.
The Clinical Market .   A significant part of our clinical diagnostic customers are in pathology labs throughout the world.  Our high-quality, automated pathology tissue staining platforms and solutions are used most heavily by the large labs located in hospitals, medical centers, and reference labs.  The market is skewed towards the mature economies, with approximately 75% of the market in North America, Western Europe and Japan.  The mix is changing, however, as emerging markets increase spending on human health.
The clinical market for genomics consists of high complexity clinical labs performing patient testing, including for-profit reference laboratories, hospital labs, and molecular diagnostic companies. While these labs primarily purchase in vitro diagnostics (IVD) labeled testing kits, they often develop and validate their own molecular based tests. Analyte Specific Reagents (ASRs) are often used by these labs.
Life Sciences and Diagnostics Measurement Products and Applications Our products fall into eleven main areas of work: liquid chromatography, mass spectrometry, software and informatics, lab automation and robotics, automated electrophoresis, NMR and MRI systems, life sciences consumables and services, pathology products, specific proteins and flow reagents, target enrichment, cytogenetic research solutions and  microarrays. Our key product 4 Table of Contents segments include: Liquid Chromatography Products A liquid chromatograph or a high performance liquid chromatograph (HPLC) is used to separate molecules of a liquid mixture to determine the quantity and identity of the molecules present. The Agilent LC portfolio is modular in construction and can be configured as analytical and preparative systems. These systems can be stepwise upgraded to highly sophisticated, automated workflow solutions such as method development, multimethod/walk-up, high-capacity/high-throughput or multidimensional LC and can be extended to applicationbased analyzers e.g.for bio-molecular separations, chiral analysis or size exclusion chromatography. As a leader in liquid chromatography, we continue to expand our application space with new HPLC columns, new services and diagnostics offerings and ongoing instrument and software product enhancements.
Mass Spectrometry Products A mass spectrometer (MS) identifies and quantifies chemicals based on a chemical's molecular mass and characteristic patterns of fragment ion masses that result when a molecule is broken apart. Liquid chromatography is commonly used to separate compounds and introduce them to the MS system. The combined use of LC and MS is frequently used both to identify and quantify chemical compounds. Mass spectrometry is an important tool in analyzing small molecules and can also be used to characterize and quantify proteins and other biological entities. Agilent's LCMS portfolio includes instruments built around four main analyzer types- single quadrupole, triple quadrupole, time-of-flight (TOF) and quadrupole time-of-flight (QTOF). We significantly expanded our mass spectrometry portfolio in recent years with a focus on improving performance, sensitivity, and ease of use.
Software and Informatics Products We provide software for instrument control, data acquisition, data analysis, laboratory content and business process management, and informatics. Our software facilitates the regulatorycompliant use of instruments in pharmaceutical quality assurance/quality control environments. With OpenLab Laboratory Software Suite, Agilent has a scalable, open software platform that enables customers to capture, analyze, and share scientific data throughout the lab and across the enterprise.
Lab Automation and Robotics We offer a comprehensive suite of workflow solutions to our life science customers with the addition of automated liquid handling and robotics that range from standalone instrumentation to bench-top automation solutions to large, multiarmed robotic systems. These solutions strengthen our offering of automated samplepreparation solutions across a broad range of applications. In fiscal 2012 we acquired AssayMAP technology, which in combination with Agilent's Bravo liquid handling platform enables highly parallel automated microchromatography for protein purification and characterization. In 2011, Agilent acquired a technology that provides high throughput sample introduction devices (Rapid Fire) for LCMS to expand capability to run ultra-short analysis in an automated manner.
Automated Electrophoresis and Microfluidics Automated electrophoresis is a separation technique for bio molecules such as proteins, peptides and nucleic acids (RNA and DNA) and is used to determine the identity of a molecule by either size or charge. It is widely used as a QC tool to check sample integrity prior to subsequent analysis.  Prominent examples are nucleic acid preparation products in front of polymerase chain reaction, NGS and microarrays.
NMR, MRI and XRD systems NMR, spectrometers, MRI systems and XRD systems are used in a variety of industries including academic and not-for-profit research, life sciences (pharma and biotech), and industrial companies. All of these technologies are utilized for basic and applied research, and NMR is also used in process development and manufacturing QA/QC. In the fourth quarter of 2013, we announced the termination of our involvement in MRI systems.
Life Sciences Consumables and Services We also offer a broad range of consumable products, which support our LC and MS technology platforms. These consumable products include sample preparation products; self-manufactured LC columns, instrument replacement parts, and consumable supplies to meet our customers' analysis needs. All of our products are designed to Agilent's specifications to improve and maximize the performance of our instruments.
5 Table of Contents We offer a wide range of startup, operational, educational and compliance support services for our measurement and data handling systems. Our support services include maintenance, troubleshooting, repair and training for all of our chemical and bioinstrumentation analysis hardware and software products. Special service bundles have also been designed to meet the specific application needs of various industries.
Pathology Products This area consists of routine clinical solutions for tissue based cancer diagnostics with solutions that comprise antibodies, reagents, instruments and software targeting both primary and advanced cancer diagnostics. Our CoverStainer and Artisan based product families target primary cancer diagnostics through Hematoxylin and Eosin staining as well as Special Stains for additional insights and detection of potentially carcinogenic tissue. In the fourth quarter of 2013, we launched our new combined IHC/ISH platform, Dako Omnis. The Dako Omnis and Autostainer based IHC solution and Instant Quality Fluorescence In Situ Hybridization ("IQFISH") technologies provide advanced tumor typing through investigation of protein and gene expression. These products also include companion diagnostic tests that are used to help identify patients most likely to benefit from a specific targeted therapy.
Specific Proteins and Flow Reagents Our reagent OEM business is a provider of clinical diagnostic products within the areas of specific proteins for turbidimetry and reagents for flow cytometry. These are sold OEM as customized reagent solutions supplied to top IVD companies or through retail partners.
Target Enrichment Agilent continues to be a strong player in the next generation sequencing market. We provide a target enrichment portfolio composed of two main platforms, SureSelect and HaloPlex, both enabling customers to select specific target regions of the genome for sequencing. Customers can customize our products for their regions of interest using the SureDesign software, or they can choose from a wide range of catalog products, including gene panels for specific applications and Exome designs, which allow analysis of the entire coding sequences of the genome. After preparing samples with SureSelect and HaloPlex, products can be sequenced in the main next generation sequencing platforms available in the market. The technologies provide an easy sample prep workflow that can be automated with Agilent Bravo platform for scalability. HaloPlex provides less-than-24-hours fast workflow, which makes it suitable for labs that require fast turnaround time from sample to results. These products are used for mutation detection and genotyping. Results can be easily analyzed using Agilent software solutions GeneSpring or SureCall.
Cytogenetic Research Solutions and Microarrays Agilent is a leading provider of microarrays for Comparative Genomic Hybridization (CGH), mostly used by customers in cytogenetic laboratories.  The arrays allow customers to detect genome-wide copy number alterations, with high levels of resolution (from entire chromosomal copy number changes to specific microdeletions or duplications). The arrays are offered in many formats allowing the customers to choose from different levels of resolution and number of samples per arrays. Arrays can also be customized using the SureDesign software. In addition to the microarrays, Agilent's solution includes reagents for sample processing, hardware for reading the microarrays, and software to help users view the data in a meaningful way.  In addition to the CGH portfolio, the cytogenetics solution comprises a line of oligonucleotide probes for Fluorescent In Situ Hybridization ('FISH') called SureFISH. Over 400 probes are available in our catalog, covering most relevant regions in the genome. Cytogenetic labs can use SureFISH probes to detect specific translocations or copy number changes in samples. Additionally, Agilent provides a wide range of microarrays to the research market for different types of applications: gene expression, microRNA, methylation, splice variants, and chromatin immunoprecipitation applications. Arrays are offered as catalog designs or customizable designs, with no minimum order size and short delivery time, which differentiates us from other vendors and enables researchers the maximum flexibility in their studies.  Our end-to-end solution includes reagents for sample preparation and microarray processing; hardware for sample QC and high-throughput microarray scanning; microarrays on industry-standard 1  3 glass slides for key applications; custom microarray design services; and GeneSpring software products for data analysis.
PCR & qPCR Instrumentation and Molecular Biology Reagents Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) is a standard laboratory method used to amplify the amount of genetic material of a given sample to enable further interrogation. Quantitative PCR (qPCR) or real time PCR is also a standard method used in genomic research facilities to measure the amount of a specific nucleic acid sequence within a sample. There are several applications for qPCR, among the most common are identifying the expression level of a specific gene, or calculating the amount of a specific pathogen present in a sample. Agilent offers a complete portfolio of PCR & qPCR instruments, as well as specialty enzymes for 6 Table of Contents amplifying difficult sample types. In addition to PCR and qPCR enzymes, Agilent offers a wide range of molecular biology reagents including tools for cloning and mutagenesis applications.
Life Sciences and Diagnostics Customers We had over 46,000 customers for our life sciences and diagnostics business in 2013. No single customer represented a material amount of the net revenue of the life sciences and diagnostics business. A significant number of our life sciences and diagnostics customers are also customers of our chemical analysis business.
The life sciences and diagnostics business is susceptible to seasonality in its orders and revenues primarily based on U.S. and foreign government budgets and large pharmaceutical company budgets. In general, the result is that our third and fourth fiscal quarters tend to deliver the strongest profits for this group. The diagnostics business is generally a fairly stable business impacted primarily by local holidays. However, general economic trends, new product introductions and competition might overshadow this trend in any given year.
Life Sciences and Diagnostics Sales, Marketing and Support The life science and diagnostics channels focus on the therapeutics and human disease research customer base (pharma, biotech, CRO, CMO and generics), clinical customer base (pathology labs and high complexity clinical testing labs) and on emerging life sciences opportunities in academic and government life science research institutes. We deploy a multi-channel approach, marketing products to our customers through direct sales, electronic commerce, resellers, manufacturers' representatives and distributors. We primarily use direct sales to market our solutions to our pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and clinical accounts. Sales agents supplement direct sales by providing broader geographic coverage and coverage of smaller accounts. Our active reseller program augments our ability to provide more complete solutions to our customers. We sell our consumable products through distributors, telesales, electronic commerce and direct sales. We utilize telesales for more mature product lines, as well as for reorders of reagent products.
We deliver our support services to customers in a variety of ways, including on-site assistance with repair or exchange of returned products, telephone support and self-diagnostic services provided over the Internet. We also offer special industry-focused service bundles that are designed to meet the specific needs of hydrocarbon processing, environmental, pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical customers to keep instruments fully operational and compliant with the respective industry requirements. Our products typically come with standard warranties, and extended warranties are available for additional cost. Our complete pathology solutions are often sold with both application and technical service support.
Life Sciences and Diagnostics Manufacturing Our manufacturing supports our diverse product range and customercentric focus. We assemble highly configurable products to individual customer orders and make standard products to stock. We employ advanced manufacturing techniques and supply chain management systems to reduce costs and manufacturing cycle times. Our manufacturing process then converts these designs into custom products for shipment to customers. We selectively use third parties to provide some supply chain processes for manufacturing, warehousing and logistics. We have manufacturing facilities in California, Colorado and North Carolina in the U.S. Outside of the U.S., we have manufacturing facilities in Germany, Malaysia, Poland, Singapore and the U.K.  Our FDA registered sites include Texas, Denmark and California. We utilize just-in-time manufacturing.
Life Sciences and Diagnostics Competition The markets for analytical instruments, diagnostics and genomics products in which we compete are characterized by evolving industry standards and intense competition. Our principal competitors in the life sciences and diagnostics arena include: Bruker Corp., Danaher Corporation, Thermo Fisher ScientificInc., Waters Corp, AffymetrixInc., Illumina,Inc., Life Technologies Corp, Abbott Laboratories, Sakura and Roche. Agilent competes on the basis of product performance, reliability, support quality, applications expertise, global channel coverage and price.
Life Sciences and Diagnostics Government Regulation Some of the products the life sciences and diagnostics group sells are subject to regulatory approval by the FDA and other regulatory bodies throughout the world. These regulations govern a wide variety of product related activities, from quality management, design and development to labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales and distribution. We continually invest in our manufacturing infrastructure to gain and maintain certifications necessary for the level of clearance.
7 Table of Contents Chemical Analysis Business Our chemical analysis business provides application-focused solutions that include instruments, software, consumables, and services that enable customers to identify, quantify and analyze the physical and biological properties of substances and products. Key product categories in chemical analysis include: gas chromatography ("GC") systems, columns and components; gas chromatography mass spectrometry ("GC-MS") systems; inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry ("ICP-MS") instruments; atomic absorption ("AA") instruments; microwave plasma-atomic emission spectrometry (MP-AES) instruments; inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometry ("ICP-OES") instruments; software and data systems; vacuum pumps and measurement technologies; services and support for our products.
We employed approximately 3,800 people as of October31, 2013 in our chemical analysis business. This business generated revenue of $1.6 billion in fiscal 2013, $1.6billion in fiscal 2012, and $1.5billion in fiscal 2011.
Chemical Analysis Markets Within chemical analysis, we focus primarily on the following markets: The Chemical& Energy Market.
The natural gas and petroleum refining markets use our products to measure and control the quality of their finished products and to verify the environmental safety of their operations. Petroleum refiners use our measurement solutions to analyze crude oil composition, perform raw material analysis, verify and improve refining processes and ensure the overall quality of gasoline, fuels, lubricants and other products. Our solutions are also used in the development, manufacturing and quality control of fine chemicals.
The Environmental& Forensics Market.
Our instruments, software and workflow solutions are used by the environmental market for applications such as laboratory and field analysis of chemical pollutants in air, water, soil and solid waste. Environmental industry customers include all levels of government, the industrial and manufacturing sectors, engineering and consulting companies, commercial testing laboratories and colleges and universities. Drug testing and forensics laboratories use our instruments, software and workflow solutions for applications such as analyzing evidence associated with crime, screening athletes for performance enhancing drugs, analyzing samples for recreational drugs, or detecting and identifying biological and chemical warfare agents. This instrumentation is used in either static or mobile laboratories. Customers include local, state, federal, and international law enforcement agencies and health laboratories.
The Food Market.
Our instruments, software, and workflow solutions are used throughout the food production chain, including incoming inspection, new product development, quality control and assurance, and packaging. For example, our mass spectrometer portfolio, including triple quad liquid chromatography mass spectrometers, is used to analyze contaminants and residual pesticides in food. There is also a significant food safety market involved in analyzing food for pathogen contamination, accurate verification of species type and evidence of genetically modified content.
Chemical Analysis Products A key factor in all of our chemical analysis markets is the need for new products that increase customer productivity and provide high quality data that enable decision-making by our customers. Our key product segments include: Gas Chromatography Products Agilent is the world's leading provider of gas chromatographs, both laboratory and portable models. A gas chromatograph ("GC") is used to separate any gas, liquid or solid that can be vaporized and then detect the molecules present to determine their identity and quantity. Agilent provides custom or standard analyzers configured for specific chemical analysis applications, such as detailed speciation of a complex hydrocarbon stream, calculation of gas calorific values in the field, or analysis of a new bio-fuel formulation. We also offer related software, accessories and consumable products for these and other similar instruments.
Mass Spectrometry Products Mass spectrometry ("MS") is a technique for analyzing the individual chemical components of substances by ionizing them and determining their mass-to-charge ratios. Our MS products incorporate various technologies for measuring mass, including single-quadrupole, triple-quadrupole, quadrupole time-of-flight and ion trap mass spectrometers. We combine our mass spectrometers with other instruments to create high-performance instruments such as gas chromatograph mass spectrometers ("GC/MS"), and inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometers ("ICP-MS"). We also offer related software, accessories and consumable products for these and other similar instruments.
8 Table of Contents Spectroscopy Products Spectroscopy is a technique for analyzing the individual chemical components of substances based on the absorption or emission of electromagnetic radiation of specific wavelengths of light. Our spectroscopy instruments include atomic absorption ("AA") spectrometers, microwave plasma-atomic emission spectrometers (MP-AES), inductively coupled plasma-optical emissions spectrometers ("ICP-OES"), inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometers ("ICP-MS"), fluorescence spectrophotometers, ultraviolet- visible ("UV-Vis") spectrophotometers, Fourier Transform infrared ("FT-IR") spectrophotometers, near-infrared ("NIR") spectrophotometers, Raman spectrometers and sample automation products. We also offer related software, accessories and consumable products for these and other similar instruments.
Vacuum Technology Products Our vacuum technologies products are used to create, control, measure and test vacuum environments in life science, industrial and scientific applications where ultra-clean, high-vacuum environments are needed. Vacuum technologies' customers are typically OEMsthat manufacture equipment for these applications. Products include a wide range of high and ultra-high vacuum pumps (diffusion, turbomolecular and ion getter), intermediate vacuum pumps (rotary vane, sorption and dry scroll), vacuum instrumentation (vacuum control instruments, sensor gauges and meters) and vacuum components (valves, flanges and other mechanical hardware). These products also include helium mass spectrometry and helium-sensing leak detection instruments used to identify and measure leaks in hermetic or vacuum environments. In addition to product sales, we also offer a wide range of services including an exchange and rebuild program, assistance with the design and integration of vacuum systems, applications support and training in basic and advanced vacuum technologies.
Consumables and Services We offer a broad range of consumable products, which support our technology platforms, including sample preparation consumables such as solid phase extraction ("SPE") and filtration products, self-manufactured GC and LC columns, chemical standards, and instrument replacement parts. Consumable products also include scientific instrument parts and supplies such as filters and fittings for GC systems; xenon lamps and cuvettes for UV-Vis-NIR, fluorescence, FT-IR and Raman spectroscopy instruments; and graphite furnace tubes, hollow cathode lamps and specialized sample introduction glassware for our AA, ICP-OES and ICP-MS products.
We offer a wide range of startup, operational, educational and compliance support services for our measurement and data handling systems. Our support services include maintenance, troubleshooting, repair and training for all of our chemical and bioinstrumentation analysis hardware and software products. Special service bundles have also been designed to meet the specific application needs of various industries.
Chemical Analysis Customers We had approximately 37,000 customers for our chemical analysis business in 2013. No single customer represented a material amount of the net revenue of the chemical analysis business. A significant number of our chemical analysis customers are also customers of our life sciences and diagnostics business.
The chemical analysis business is susceptible to seasonality in its orders and revenues primarily based on U.S. government and large company budgets. The result is that our fourth fiscal quarter tends to deliver the strongest profits for this business. However, general economic trends, new product introductions and competition might overshadow this trend in any given year.
Chemical Analysis Sales, Marketing and Support Our sales and support delivery channels are aligned by key markets. We market products to our customers through direct sales, electronic commerce, resellers, manufacturers' representatives and distributors. Additionally, we are optimizing our worldwide distribution capabilities to address high-growth opportunities such as the environmental and food safety markets in the Asia-Pacific region.
We use direct sales to market our solutions to our large- and medium-sized chemical customers and environmental accounts. Sales agents supplement direct sales by providing broader geographic coverage and coverage of smaller accounts. Our active reseller program augments our ability to provide more complete solutions to our customers. We sell our consumable products through distributors, telesales, electronic commerce and direct sales.
9 Table of Contents We deliver our support services to customers in a variety of ways, including on-site assistance with repair or exchange of returned products, telephone support and self-diagnostic services provided over the Internet. We also offer special industry-focused service bundles that are designed to meet the specific needs including those for hydrocarbon processing and environmental customers to keep instruments fully operational and compliant with the respective industry requirements. Our products typically come with standard warranties, and extended warranties are available for additional cost.
Chemical Analysis Manufacturing Our manufacturing supports our diverse product range and customer-centric focus. We assemble highly configurable products to individual customer orders and make standard products to stock. We employ advanced manufacturing techniques and supply chain management systems to reduce costs and manufacturing cycle times. We selectively use third parties to provide some supply chain processes for manufacturing, warehousing and logistics. We have manufacturing facilities in California, Delaware, and Connecticut in the U.S. Outside of the U.S., we have manufacturing facilities in Australia, Canada, China, Italy, Malaysia, Netherlands, Japan, and the United Kingdom. We utilize just-in-time manufacturing and so typically do not maintain a high level of inventory.
Chemical Analysis Competition The markets for analytical instruments in which we compete are characterized by evolving industry standards and intense competition. Our principal competitors in the chemical analysis arena include: Bruker Corporation, PerkinElmerInc., Shimadzu Corporation and Thermo Fisher ScientificInc. Agilent competes on the basis of product performance, reliability, support quality, applications expertise, global channel coverage and price.
Electronic Measurement Business Our electronic measurement business provides electronic measurement instruments and systems, software design tools and related services that are used in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment and operation of electronics equipment, and microscopy products. Related services include start-up assistance, instrument productivity and application services and instrument calibration and repair. We also offer customization, consulting and optimization services throughout the customer's product lifecycle.
Our electronic measurement business employed approximately 8,300 people as of October31, 2013. Our electronic measurement business generated $2.9billion in revenue in fiscal 2013 and $3.3billion in revenue in fiscal 2012 and 2011.
Electronic Measurement Markets Our electronic measurement products serve the following markets: The Communications Test Market We market our electronic measurement products and services to network equipment manufacturers ("NEMs"), wireless device manufacturers, and communications service providers, including the component manufacturers within the supply chain for these customers.
NEMsmanufacture and sell products to facilitate the transmission of voice, data and video traffic. The NEMs' customers are communications service providers that deploy and operate the networks and services as well as distribute end-user subscriber devices, including wireless personal communication devices and set-top boxes. To meet their customers' demands, NEMsrequire test and measurement instruments, systems and solutions for the development, production and installation of each network technology.
Wireless device manufacturers require test and measurement products for the design, development, manufacture and repair of mobile devices. These mobile devices are used for voice, data and video delivery to individuals who connect wirelessly to the service provider's network. The device manufacturers' primary customers are large and small service providers. Wireless device manufacturers require test and measurement products that enable technology development in conformance with the latest communications standards.
Communications service providers require reliable network equipment that enables new service offerings and allows their networks to operate at ever-increasing capacities. To achieve this, communications service providers require a range of sophisticated 10 Table of Contents test instruments and systems to monitor and evaluate network performance and to identify any sources of communications failure throughout the wireless and fiber optic networks.
Component manufacturers design, develop and manufacture electronic components and modules used in network equipment and wireless devices. The component manufacturers require test and measurement products to verify that the performance of their components and modules meet the specifications of their NEM and device customers.
The communications test market accounted for approximately 34percent of revenue from our electronic measurement business in 2013.
The General Purpose Test Market We market our general purpose test products and services to the electronics industry and other industries with significant electronic content such as the aerospace and defense, computer and semiconductor industries. These electronics and electronics-dependent industries design, develop and manufacture a wide range of products, including those produced in high volumes, such as computers, computer peripherals, electronic components, consumer electronics, enterprise servers, storage networks and automotive electronics. The components, printed circuit assemblies and functional devices for these products may be designed, developed and manufactured by electronic components companies, by original equipment manufacturers or by contract manufacturers.
For the development and timely commercialization of new technologies, manufacturers require state-of-the-art test instruments, systems and design software in order to design products for efficient and cost-effective manufacturing and to validate product performance in a variety of configurations and environments.
Customers use our general purpose test solutions in developing and manufacturing a wide variety of electronic components and systems. These customers' test requirements include testing the electrical parameters of digital, radio frequency, and microwave frequency components and assemblies; testing multiple parameters of the printed circuit boards used in almost every electronic device; testing of the final product; and testing of systems containing multiple electronic instruments. For semiconductor and board test applications, customers use our solutions in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment, and operation of semiconductor and printed circuit assembly fabrication.
We address the biology, life sciences and material science markets by providing solutions such as the atomic force microscope, nano indenters and scanning electron microscope. For nanotechnology applications, customers use our products to study biological samples at the cellular and molecular level including imaging of DNA and proteins, and to study and research polymers, electrochemistry, and thin films.
The general purpose test market accounted for approximately 66percent of revenue from our electronic measurement business in 2013.
Electronic Measurement Products We divide our electronic measurement products into communications test products and general purpose test products.
Communications Test Products We sell products and services applicable to a wide range of communications networks and systems including wireless communications and microwave networks, voice, broadband, data, and fiber optic networks. Test products include electronic design automation ("EDA") software, vector and signal analyzers, signal generators, vector network analyzers, one box testers, oscilloscopes, logic and protocol analyzers, and bit-error ratio testers.
Our wireless communications and microwave network products include radio frequency and microwave test instruments and EDA software tools. These products are required for the design and production of wireless network products, communications links, cellular handsets and base stations. We provide handheld instruments for the installation and maintenance of wireless networks. Our high-frequency EDA software tools and instruments are used by radio frequency integrated circuit design engineers to model, simulate and analyze communications product designs at the circuit and system levels. Our customers are also applying this technology more frequently to model signal integrity problems in digital design applications as digital speeds continue to increase.
Our suite of fiber optic test products measure and analyze a wide variety of critical optical and electrical parameters in fiber 11 Table of Contents optic networks and their components. Components which can be tested with Agilent solutions include source lasers, optical amplifiers, filters and other passive components. Test products include optical modulation analyzers, optical component analyzers, optical power meters, and optical laser source products.
General Purpose Test Products We sell the following types of products into the general purpose test market: general purpose instruments, modular instruments and test software, digital test products, semiconductor and board test solutions, electronics manufacturing test equipment, atomic force microscopes and network surveillance solutions.
General purpose instruments are used principally by engineers in research and development laboratories, manufacturing, and calibration and service, for measuring voltage, current, frequency, signal pulse width, modulation and other complex electronics measurements. Our general purpose products include spectrum analyzers, network analyzers, signal generators, logic analyzers, digitizing oscilloscopes, voltmeters, multimeters, frequency counters, bench and system power supplies, function generators and waveform synthesizers.
Modular instruments and test software are used by engineers and scientists in the design and manufacture of electronic devices and for data collection in many diverse experiments and systems. The building blocks of these systems can be configured for a wide variety of test applications and offer the flexibility to be changed by recombining modular hardware and software components as needed. Examples include test systems for wireless semiconductors; aviation communication, navigation and radar systems; and high energy physics research.
Our digital test products are used by research and development engineers across a broad range of industries to validate the function and performance of their digital product and system designs. These designs include a wide range of products from simple digital control circuits to complex high speed systems such as computer servers and the latest generation gaming consoles. The test products offered include high-performance oscilloscopes, logic and serial protocol analyzers, logic-signal sources and data generators.
Our semiconductor and board test solutions enable customers to develop and test state of the art semiconductors, test and inspect printed circuit boards, perform functional testing, and measure position and distance information to the sub-nanometer level. We supply parametric test instruments and systems used primarily to examine semiconductor wafers during the manufacturing process. Our in-circuit test system helps identify quality defects, such as faulty or incorrect parts, that affect electrical performance. Our laser interferometer measurement systems are based on precision optical technology and provide precise position or distance information for dimensional measurements.
Our atomic force microscopes ("AFM") are high-resolution imaging devices that can resolve features as small as an atomic lattice. An AFM allows researchers to observe and manipulate molecular and atomic level features. Our expanding portfolio of AFM products provides customers with reliable, easy-to-use tools for a wide range of nanotechnology applications, including semiconductor, data storage, polymers, materials science and life science studies.
Our surveillance systems and subsystems are used by defense and government engineers and technicians to detect, locate and analyze signals of interest. These signals may be transmitted via radio frequency or wire lines. The products offered include receivers for detecting radio frequency signals, probes for detecting wire line signals and software that enables the identification and analysis of these signals.
Electronic Measurement Customers Agilent's electronic measurement customers include original equipment and contract manufacturers of electronic products, wireless device manufacturers and network equipment manufacturers who design, develop, manufacture and install network equipment, service providers who implement, maintain and manage communication networks and services, and companies who design, develop, and manufacture semiconductors and semiconductor lithography systems. Our customers use our products to conduct research and development, manufacture, install and maintain radio frequency, microwave frequency, digital, semiconductor, and optical products and systems and conduct nanotechnology research. Many of our customers purchase solutions across several of our major product lines for their different business units.
We had approximately 14,000 customers for electronic measurement products in fiscal 2013 and no single customer represented a material amount of the net revenue of the electronic measurement business.
In general, the orders and revenues from many of the electronic measurement markets and product categories are seasonal, 12 Table of Contents traditionally marked by lower business levels in the first quarter of the fiscal year and higher volumes in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. This seasonality is particularly evident in products that we sell into the aerospace and defense industry, as well as those linked to consumer spending, which includes some of our communications test equipment. The seasonal impact of our business is tempered by broader economic trends and the diversity of our electronic measurement products and customers, which span multiple industries.
Electronic Measurement Sales, Marketing and Support We have a focused sales strategy, using a direct sales force, resellers, manufacturer's representatives and distributors to meet our customers' needs. Our direct sales force is focused on identifying customer needs and recommending solutions involving the effective use and deployment of our equipment, services, systems and capabilities. Some members of our direct sales force focus on global accounts, providing uniform services on a worldwide basis. Others focus on our more complex products such as our high-performance instruments, where customers require strategic consultation. Our sales force also engages with the contract manufacturer market by collaborating with original equipment manufacturers to specify our test equipment for contract manufacturer test applications, as well as marketing to contract manufacturers directly.
Our direct sales force consists of field engineers and systems engineers who have in-depth knowledge of the customers' business and technology needs. Our systems engineers provide a combination of consulting, systems integration and application and software engineering services and are instrumental in all stages of the sale, implementation and support of our complex systems and solutions.
To complement our direct sales force we have agreements with many channel partners around the world. These partners, including resellers, manufacturer's representatives, and distributors, serve Agilent's customers across a number of product lines and provide the same level of service and support expected from our direct channel. Lower dollar transactions can also be served by our tele-sales and electronic commerce channels.
Our products typically come with three year standard warranties, and extended warranties are available at additional cost.
Electronic Measurement Manufacturing We concentrate our electronic measurement manufacturing efforts primarily on final assembly and test of our products. To maximize our productivity and our ability to respond to market conditions, we use contract manufacturers for the production of printed circuit boards, sheet metal fabrication, metal die-casting, plastic molding and standard electronic components. We also manufacture proprietary devices and assemblies in our own fabrication facilities for competitive advantage. We have manufacturing facilities in California and Colorado in the U.S. Outside of the U.S. we have manufacturing facilities in China, Germany, Japan and Malaysia.
We generally only manufacture products when we have received firm orders for delivery and do not generally hold large stocks of finished inventory.
Electronic Measurement Competition The market for electronic measurement equipment is highly competitive. Our electronic measurement business competes with a number of significant competitors in all our major product categories and across our targeted industries. In the communications test market our primary competitors are Aeroflex Incorporated, Anritsu Corporation, Ansoft Corporation (a subsidiary of Ansys Corporation), National Instruments Corporation, Rohde& SchwarzGmbH&Co. KG, Spirentplc, Tektronix,Inc. (a subsidiary of Danaher Corporation) and Teradyne, Inc. In the general purpose test market, we compete against companies such as Aeroflex Incorporated, Bruker Corporation, Fluke Corporation (a subsidiary of Danaher Corporation), Teledyne Technologies Incorporated, National Instruments Corporation, Rohde& SchwarzGmbH&Co. KG, Tektronix,Inc. (a subsidiary of Danaher Corporation), Teradyne,Inc., Test ResearchInc., and Zygo Corporation.
Our electronic measurement business offers a wide range of products, and these products compete primarily on the basis of product quality and functionality, as well as performance and reliability.
Agilent Technologies Research Laboratories Agilent Technologies Research Laboratories ("Research Labs") is our research organization based in Santa Clara, California, with offices in Europe and Asia. The Research Labs create competitive advantage through high-impact technology, driving market leadership and growth in Agilent's core businesses and expanding Agilent's measurement footprint into adjacent markets. At the 13 Table of Contents cross-roads of the organization, the Research Labs are able to identify and enable synergies across Agilent's businesses to create competitive differentiation and compelling customer value.
The technical staff have advanced degrees that cover a wide range of scientific and engineering fields, including biology, chemistry, computer science, distributed measurement, electrical engineering, image processing, materials science, mathematics, nano/microfabrication, microfluidics, software, informatics, optics, physics, physiology and signal processing. As of the end of October 2013, Research Labs employed approximately 210 personnel worldwide.
Global Infrastructure Organization We provide support to our businesses through our global infrastructure organization. This support includes services in the areas of finance, legal, workplace services, human resources and information technology. Generally these organizations are centrally operated from Santa Clara, California, with services provided worldwide. As of the end of October 2013, our global infrastructure organization employed approximately 2,200 people worldwide.
Agilent Order Fulfillment Organization Beginning in fiscal year 2012, we created the Agilent Order Fulfillment organization to centralize all order fulfillment and supply organizations and operations.  AOF leverages our strength in manufacturing, engineering, strategic sourcing and logistics for life sciences and diagnostics, chemical analysis and electronic measurement businesses. In general, AOF employees are dedicated to specific businesses and business headcount numbers include AOF employees.  In the fourth quarter of 2013 we announced that the AOF organization had been divided into two separate operations; one dedicated to the life sciences, diagnostics and chemical analysis businesses and one dedicated to the electronic measurement business.
The following discussions of Research and Development, Backlog, Intellectual Property, Materials, Environmental, International Operations and Acquisition and Disposal of Material Assets include information common to each of our businesses.
Research and Development Research and development ("R&D") expenditures were $704 million in 2013, $668million in 2012 and $649million in 2011, the vast majority of which was company-sponsored. We anticipate that we will continue to have significant R&D expenditures in order to maintain our competitive position with a continuing flow of innovative, high-quality products and services.
We remain committed to invest approximately 10 percent of revenues in research and development and have focused our development efforts on key strategic opportunities in order to align our business with available markets and position ourselves to capture market share.
Backlog Backlog represents the amount of revenue expected from orders that have already been booked, including orders for goods and services that have not been delivered to customers, orders invoiced but not yet recognized as revenue, and orders for goods that were shipped but not invoiced, awaiting acceptance by customers.
On October31, 2013 , our unfilled backlog for the electronic measurement business was approximately $760million, as compared to approximately $800million at October31, 2012 . On October31, 2013 , our unfilled backlog for the chemical analysis business was approximately $380million, as compared to approximately $360million at October31, 2012 . Within our life sciences and diagnostics business, our unfilled backlog was approximately $520million on October31, 2013 as compared to approximately $530million at October31, 2012 . We expect that a majority of the unfilled backlog for all three businesses will be delivered to customers within six months. On average, our unfilled backlog represents approximately three months' worth of revenues. We believe backlog on any particular date, while indicative of short-term revenue performance, is not necessarily a reliable indicator of medium or long-term revenue performance.
Intellectual Property We generate patent and other intellectual property rights covering significant inventions and other innovations in order to create a competitive advantage. While we believe that our licenses, patents and other intellectual property rights have value, in general no single license, patent or other intellectual property right is in itself material. In addition, our intellectual property rights may be challenged invalidated or circumvented or may otherwise not provide significant competitive advantage.
14 Table of Contents Materials Our manufacturing operations employ a wide variety of semiconductors, electromechanical components and assemblies and raw materials such as plastic resins and sheet metal. Our electronic measurement, chemical analysis, life sciences and diagnostics businesses all purchase materials from thousands of suppliers on a global basis. Some of the parts that require custom design work are not readily available from alternate suppliers due to their unique design or the length of time necessary for design work. Our long-term relationships with suppliers allow us to proactively manage technology road maps and product discontinuance plans and monitor their financial health. Even so, some suppliers may still extend their lead times, limit supplies, increase prices or cease to produce necessary parts for our products. If these are unique components, we may not be able to find a substitute quickly or at all. To address the potential disruption in our supply chain, we use a number of techniques, including qualifying multiple sources of supply and redesign of products for alternative components. In addition, while we generally attempt to keep our inventory at minimal levels, we do purchase incremental inventory as circumstances warrant to protect the supply chain.
Environmental Our R&D, manufacturing and distribution operations involve the use of hazardous substances and are regulated under international, federal, state and local laws governing health and safety and the environment. We apply strict standards for protection of the environment and occupational health and safety to sites inside and outside the U.S., even if not subject to regulation imposed by foreign governments. We believe that our properties and operations at our facilities comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and occupational health and safety laws. However, the risk of environmental liabilities cannot be completely eliminated and there can be no assurance that the application of environmental and health and safety laws to Agilent will not require us to incur significant expenditures. We are also regulated under a number of international, federal, state, and local laws regarding recycling, product packaging and product content requirements. The environmental, product content/disposal and recycling laws are gradually becoming more stringent and may cause us to incur significant expenditures in the future.
Some of our operations are located on properties that are known to have subsurface contamination undergoing remediation by our former parent company, Hewlett-Packard Company ("HP"). As part of the initial separation agreement from HP in 1999, HP agreed to retain the liability for the contamination, perform the required remediation and indemnify us with respect to claims arising out of the contamination. The determination of the existence and cost of remediation of additional contamination caused by us, if any, could involve costly and time-consuming negotiations and litigation. While we expect that HP will meet its remediation and indemnification obligations in this regard, there can be no guarantee that it will do so. Under our agreement with HP, HP will have access to these properties to perform the remediation. HP has agreed to minimize interference with on-site operations at those properties during the course of the remediation, but there can be no guarantee that our operations will not be interrupted or that we will not be required to incur unreimbursed costs associated with the remediation. The remediation could also harm on-site operations and the future use and negatively affect the value and future use of the properties. Several of the sites under the initial separation agreement from HP have been sold.
In addition, some of these properties are undergoing remediation by HP under an order of an agency of the state in which the property is located. Although HP has agreed to indemnify us with respect to such subsurface contamination, it is possible that one or more of the governmental agencies will require us to be named on any of these orders. The naming of Agilent will not affect HP's obligation to indemnify us with regard to these matters.
We are liable and are indemnifying HP for any contamination found at all facilities transferred to us by HP excluding the properties undergoing remediation. In addition, we are obligated to indemnify HP for liability associated with past non-compliance with environmental laws regulating ongoing operations, if any, at all properties transferred to us by HP, as well as at sold or discontinued businesses that are related to our businesses. While we are not aware of any material liabilities associated with such indemnified matters, there is no guarantee that such contamination or regulatory non-compliance does not exist, and will not expose us to material liability in the future.
We are being indemnified by HP with respect to all environmental liabilities for which HP accrued a reserve, and we are not aware of any material environmental liabilities assumed by us which are not subject to the indemnity.
As part of our acquisition of Varian in 2010, we assumed the liabilities of Varian, including Varian's costs and potential liabilities for environmental matters. One such cost is our obligation, along with the obligation of Varian Semiconductor Equipment Associates,Inc. ("VSEA") (under the terms of a Distribution Agreement between Varian, VSEA and Varian Medical Systems,Inc. ("VMS")) to each indemnify VMS for one-third of certain costs (after adjusting for any insurance proceeds and tax benefits recognized or realized by VMS for such costs) relating to (a)environmental investigation, monitoring and/or remediation activities at certain facilities previously operated by Varian Associates,Inc. ("VAI") and third-party claims made in connection with environmental conditions at those facilities, and (b)U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or third-party claims alleging that VAI 15 Table of Contents or VMS is a potentially responsible party under the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended ("CERCLA") in connection with certain sites to which VAI allegedly shipped manufacturing waste for recycling, treatment or disposal (the "CERCLA sites"). With respect to the facilities formerly operated by VAI, VMS is overseeing the environmental investigation, monitoring and/or remediation activities, in most cases under the direction of, or in consultation with, federal, state and/or local agencies, and handling third-party claims. VMS is also handling claims relating to the CERCLA sites. Although any ultimate liability arising from environmental- related matters could result in significant expenditures that, if aggregated and assumed to occur within a single fiscal year, could be material to our financial statements, the likelihood of such occurrence is considered remote. Based on information currently available and our best assessment of the ultimate amount and timing of environmental-related events, management believes that the costs of environmental-related matters are unlikely to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.
We maintain a comprehensive Environmental Site Liability insurance policy which may cover certain clean-up costs or legal claims related to environmental contamination. This policy covers specified active, inactive and divested locations.
International Operations Our net revenue originating outside the U.S., as a percentage of our total net revenue, was approximately 70 percent in fiscal 2013, 68percent in fiscal 2012, and 70percent in fiscal 2011, the majority of which was from customers other than foreign governments. Annual revenues derived from China were approximately 17 percent in fiscal 2013 and 16percent in fiscal 2012 and 2011. Approximately 9 percent of our revenue in fiscal 2013, 10percent in fiscal 2012 and 11percent in fiscal 2011 was derived from Japan. Revenues from external customers are generally attributed to countries based upon the location of the Agilent sales representative.
Long-lived assets located outside of the U.S., as a percentage of our total long-lived assets, was approximately 58percent in fiscal year 2013, 60percent in fiscal year 2012 and 56 percent in fiscal year 2011. Approximately 9, 12 and 13percent of our long-lived assets were located in Japan in fiscal years 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
Most of our sales in international markets are made by foreign sales subsidiaries. In countries with low sales volumes, sales are made through various representatives and distributors. However, we also sell into international markets directly from the U.S.
Our international business is subject to risks customarily encountered in foreign operations, including interruption to transportation flows for delivery of parts to us and finished goods to our customers, changes in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, consequences from changes in tax laws and regulatory requirements, difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, differing labor regulations, differing protection of intellectual property and geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism and war. We are also exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales and expenses, and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local functional currency, and may also become subject to interest rate risk inherent in any debt we incur, or investment portfolios we hold. There may be an increased risk of political unrest in regions where we have significant manufacturing operations such as Southeast Asia. However, we believe that our international diversification provides stability to our worldwide operations and reduces the impact on us of adverse economic changes in any single country. Financial information about our international operations is contained in Note21, "Segment Information", to our consolidated financial statements.
Acquisition of Material Assets On June 21, 2012, we acquired Dako through the purchase of 100% of the share capital of Dako, a limited liability company incorporated under the laws of Denmark, under the share purchase agreement, dated May 16, 2012. Dako provides antibodies, reagents, scientific instruments and software primarily to customers in pathology laboratories. As a result of the acquisition, Dako has become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Agilent. The consideration paid was approximately $2.143 billion, of which $1.4 billion was paid directly to the seller and $743 million was paid to satisfy the outstanding debt of Dako.  Agilent funded the acquisition using our existing cash.
Executive Officers of the Registrant The names of our current executive officers and their ages, titles and biographies appear below: Henrik Ancher-Jensen, 48, has served as Senior Vice President, Agilent and President, Order Fulfillment since September 2013. From September 2012 to September 2013, Mr. Ancher-Jensen served as our Vice President, Global Product Supply, Diagnostics and Genomics Group. From September 2010 to September 2012 he served as Corporate Vice President, Global Operations of Dako A/S, a Danish diagnostics company, and as Dakos Vice President, Supply Chain and Chief Information Officer 16 Table of Contents from 2006 to September 2010. Prior to joining Dako, he spent more than 15 years in senior management roles and management consulting with Chr. Hansen, Deloitte Consulting and NVE.
Solange Glaize, 49, has served as our Vice President, Corporate Controllership and Chief Accounting Officer since March, 2012. From June2011 to March2012, Ms.Glaize served as our Vice President of Finance and Business Development, Group CFO, Life Sciences Group and from September2009 to June2011 as Vice President of Finance, Group CFO, Life Sciences Group. From May2005 to November2009, she served as Senior Director of Finance, Life Sciences Solution Unit. Ms.Glaize has previously served in various capacities for Agilent, including as Director of Finance, Worldwide Order Fulfillment, Director of Sales Finance and Administration, Semiconductor Products Group and as Managing Director, European Financial Services. Prior to joining Agilent, Ms.Glaize held a variety of positions in finance with Hewlett-Packard Company.
Jean M. Halloran, 61, has served as our Senior Vice President, Human Resources since from August 1999. From 1997 to 1999, Ms.Halloran served as Director of Corporate Education and Development for HewlettPackard. Prior to assuming this position, from 1993 to 1997, Ms.Halloran acted as human resources manager for HewlettPackard's Measurement Systems Organization. Ms.Halloran joined HewlettPackard in 1980 in the Medical Products Group, where she held a variety of positions in human resources, manufacturing and strategic planning.
Didier Hirsch, 62, has served as our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since July 2010 and served as interim Chief Financial Officer from April 2010 to July 2010. Prior to that he served as Vice President, Corporate Controllership and Tax from November 2006 to July2010 and as Chief Accounting Officer from November 2007 to July2010. From April 2003 to October 2006, Mr.Hirsch served as Vice President and Controller. Prior to assuming this position, Mr.Hirsch served as Vice President and Treasurer from September 1999 to April 2003. Mr.Hirsch had joined HewlettPackard Company in 1989 as Director of Finance and Administration of HewlettPackard France. In 1993, he became Director of Finance and Administration of Hewlett Packard Asia Pacific, and in 1996 Director of Finance and Administration of HewlettPackard Europe, Middle East, and Africa.  Mr. Hirsch serves on the Board of Directors of Logitech International and International Rectifier Corporation.
Marie Oh Huber, 52, has served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since September 2009 and serves as an officer or director for a variety of Agilent subsidiaries. She served as our Vice President, Deputy General Counsel and Assistant Secretary from June 2007 to September 2009 and as our Vice President, Assistant General Counsel and Assistant Secretary from July 2002 to June 2007. She is also a director of the American Leadership Forum- Silicon Valley.
Michael R. McMullen , 52, has served as Senior Vice President, Agilent and President, Chemical Analysis Group since September 2009. From January 2002 to September 2009, he served as our Vice President and General Manager of the Chemical Analysis Solutions Unit of the Life Sciences and Chemical Analysis Group. Prior to assuming this position, from March 1999 to December 2001, Mr.McMullen served as Country Manager for Agilent's China, Japan and Korea Life Sciences and Chemical Analysis Group. Prior to this position, Mr.McMullen served as our Controller for the HewlettPackard Company and Yokogawa Electric Joint Venture from July 1996 to March 1999.
Ronald S. Nersesian , 54, has served as Executive Vice President, Agilent and President and Chief Executive Officer Designate, Electronic Measurement since September 2013.  Mr. Nersesian served as President from November 2012 to September 2013 and as Chief Operating Officer from November 2011 to September 2013.  From November 2011 to November 2012 Mr. Nersesian served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.  He served as our Senior Vice President, Agilent and President, Electronic Measurement Group from March 2009 to November 2011, as our Vice President and General Manager of the Wireless Business Unit of the Electronics Measurement Group from February 2005 to February 2009, and as our Vice President and General Manager of the Design Validation Division from May 2002 to February 2005. Prior to joining Agilent, Mr.Nersesian served in management positions with LeCroy Corporation from 1996 to 2002.  From 1984 through 1996, Mr. Nersesian served in various roles with Hewlett-Packard Company. Mr.Nersesian serves on the Board of Directors of Trimble Navigation Limited.
Guy Sn , 58, has served as Senior Vice President, Agilent and President, Electronic Measurement Group since November 2011. From May 2009 to November 2011, Mr.Sn served as our Vice President and General Manager, Microwave and Communications Division of the Electronic Measurement Group, and from October 2006 to April 2009, he served as our Vice President and General Manager, Signal Analysis Division. Prior to that, Mr.Sn held a broad variety of positions in sales, marketing and support in Europe and Asia for Agilent and HewlettPackard Company.
Fred A. Strohmeier , 59, has served as Senior Vice President, Agilent and President, Life Sciences and Diagnostics since December 2013. From December 2012 to December 2013 he served as Vice President and General Manager of the Life Science Products and Solutions business. He served as Vice President and General Manager of the Liquid Phase Analysis Division from December 2008 to December 2012. From 2006 to 2008, he served as General Manager of the Liquid Phase Division. Prior to 17 Table of Contents that, Mr. Strohmeier held various positions in general management, research and development and manufacturing for Agilent and Hewlett-Packard Company.
William P. Sullivan, 64, has served as Agilents Chief Executive Officer since March 2005 and served as President since September 2013.  He previously served as President from March 2005 to November 2012. Before being named as Agilents Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Sullivan served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer from March 2002 to March 2005. In that capacity, he shared the responsibilities of the presidents office with Agilents former President and Chief Executive Officer, Edward W. Barnholt. Mr. Sullivan also had overall responsibility for Agilents Electronic Products and Solutions Group, the companys largest business group. Prior to assuming that position, Mr. Sullivan served as our Senior Vice President, Semiconductor Products Group, from August 1999 to March 2002. Before that, Mr. Sullivan held various management positions at Hewlett-Packard Company. Mr.Sullivan serves on the Board of the Children's Discovery Museum in San Jose, California, as well as on the Board of Directors of URS Corporation and Avnet,Inc.
Investor Information We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act). Therefore, we file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Such reports, proxy statements and other information may be read and copied by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically.
You can access financial and other information at our Investor Relations website. The address is www.investor.agilent.com. We make available, free of charge, copies of our annual report on Form10-K, quarterly reports on Form10-Q, current reports on Form8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC.
Our Amended and Restated Corporate Governance Standards, the charters of our Audit and Finance Committee, our Compensation Committee, our Executive Committee and our Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee, as well as our Standards of Business Conduct (including code of ethics provisions that apply to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer and senior financial officers) are available on our website at www.investor.agilent.com under Corporate Governance. These items are also available in print to any stockholder in the United States and Canada who requests them by calling (877)942-4200. This information is also available by writing to the company at the address on the cover of this Annual Report on Form10-K.
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks, Uncertainties and Other Factors That May Affect Future Results Depressed and uncertain general economic conditions may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.
Our business is sensitive to negative changes in general economic conditions, both inside and outside the U.S. The continued economic downturn may adversely impact our business resulting in:  reduced demand for our products, delays in the shipment of orders, or increases in order cancellations;  increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories;  increased price pressure for our products and services; and  greater risk of impairment to the value, and a detriment to the liquidity, of our investment portfolio.
18 Table of Contents Our operating results and financial condition could be harmed if the markets into which we sell our products decline or do not grow as anticipated.
Visibility into our markets is limited. Our quarterly sales and operating results are highly dependent on the volume and timing of orders received during the fiscal quarter, which are difficult to forecast and may be cancelled by our customers. In addition, our revenues and earnings forecasts for future fiscal quarters are often based on the expected seasonality or cyclicality of our markets. However, the markets we serve do not always experience the seasonality or cyclicality that we expect. Any decline in our customers' markets or in general economic conditions, including declines related to the current market disruptions described above, would likely result in a reduction in demand for our products and services. The broader semiconductor market is one of the drivers for our electronic measurement business, and therefore, a decrease in the semiconductor market could harm our electronic measurement business. Also, if our customers' markets decline, we may not be able to collect on outstanding amounts due to us. Such declines could harm our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and stock price, and could limit our profitability. Also, in such an environment, pricing pressures could intensify. Since a significant portion of our operating expenses is relatively fixed in nature due to sales, research and development and manufacturing costs, if we were unable to respond quickly enough these pricing pressures could further reduce our operating margins.
If we do not introduce successful new products and services in a timely manner, our products and services will become obsolete, and our operating results will suffer.
We generally sell our products in industries that are characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product and service introductions and changing industry standards. In addition, many of the markets in which we operate are seasonal and cyclical. Without the timely introduction of new products, services and enhancements, our products and services will become technologically obsolete over time, in which case our revenue and operating results would suffer. The success of our new products and services will depend on several factors, including our ability to:  properly identify customer needs;  innovate and develop new technologies, services and applications;  successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner;  manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes and on time;  differentiate our offerings from our competitors' offerings;  price our products competitively;  anticipate our competitors' development of new products, services or technological innovations; and  control product quality in our manufacturing process.
We are pursuing a plan to spin-off our electronic measurement business into a new, independent publicly traded company.  The proposed separation may not be completed on the currently contemplated timeline or at all and may not achieve the intended benefits.
I n September 2013, we announced a plan to separate into two independent public companies through a spin-off of our electronic measurement business. Unanticipated developments, including possible delays in obtaining various tax rulings, regulatory approvals or clearances and trade qualifications, uncertainty of the financial markets and challenges in establishing infrastructure or processes, could delay or prevent the proposed separation or cause the proposed separation to occur on terms or conditions that are less favorable and/or different than expected. Even if the transaction is completed, we may not realize some or all of the anticipated benefits from the spin-off. Expenses incurred to accomplish the proposed separation may be significantly higher than what we currently anticipate. Executing the proposed separation also requires significant time and attention from management, which could distract them from other tasks in operating our business. Following the proposed separation, the combined value of the common stock of the two publicly-traded companies may not be equal to or greater than what the value of our common stock would have been had the proposed separation not occurred.
Failure to adjust our purchases due to changing market conditions or failure to estimate our customers' demand could adversely affect our income.
Our income could be harmed if we are unable to adjust our purchases to reflect market fluctuations, including those caused by the seasonal or cyclical nature of the markets in which we operate. The sale of our products and services are dependent, to a large degree, on customers whose industries are subject to seasonal or cyclical trends in the demand for their products. For example, the consumer electronics market is particularly volatile, making demand difficult to anticipate. During a market upturn, we may not be able to purchase sufficient supplies or components to meet increasing product demand, which could materially affect our results. In the past we have seen a shortage of parts for some of our products. In addition, some of the parts that require custom design are not readily available from alternate suppliers due to their unique design or the length of time necessary for design work.
19 Table of Contents Should a supplier cease manufacturing such a component, we would be forced to reengineer our product. In addition to discontinuing parts, suppliers may also extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. In order to secure components for the production of products, we may continue to enter into non-cancelable purchase commitments with vendors, or at times make advance payments to suppliers, which could impact our ability to adjust our inventory to declining market demands. Prior commitments of this type have resulted in an excess of parts when demand for our communications and electronics products has decreased. If demand for our products is less than we expect, we may experience additional excess and obsolete inventories and be forced to incur additional charges.
Economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our results of operations.
Because we sell our products worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. We anticipate that revenue from international operations will continue to represent a majority of our total revenue. In addition, many of our employees, contract manufacturers, suppliers, job functions and manufacturing facilities are located outside the U.S. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including:  interruption to transportation flows for delivery of parts to us and finished goods to our customers;  changes in foreign currency exchange rates;  changes in a specific country's or region's political, economic or other conditions;  trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements;  negative consequences from changes in tax laws including changes to U.S. tax legislation that could materially increase our effective tax rate;  difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations;  differing labor regulations;  differing protection of intellectual property;  unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and  geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism and war.
We centralized most of our accounting processes to two locations: India and Malaysia. These processes include general accounting, cost accounting, accounts payable and accounts receivables functions. If conditions change in those countries, it may adversely affect operations, including impairing our ability to pay our suppliers and collect our receivables. Our results of operations, as well as our liquidity, may be adversely affected and possible delays may occur in reporting financial results.
Additionally, we must comply with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, and anti-competition regulations. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, restrictions on our business conduct and on our ability to offer our products in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our brand, our ability to attract and retain employees, our international operations, our business and our operating results. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies. See Item 3. "Legal Proceedings". If government action results from our China investigation, we could face possible fines and penalties, criminal or civil sanctions, or other consequences, and our business could suffer.
In addition, although the majority of our products are priced and paid for in U.S. dollars, a significant amount of certain types of expenses, such as payroll, utilities, tax, and marketing expenses, are paid in local currencies. Our hedging programs reduce, but do not always entirely eliminate, within any given twelve month period, the impact of currency exchange rate movements, and therefore fluctuations in exchange rates, including those caused by currency controls, could impact our business operating results and financial condition by resulting in lower revenue or increased expenses. However, for expenses beyond that twelve month period, our hedging strategy does not mitigate our exposure. In addition, our currency hedging programs involve third party financial institutions as counterparties. The weakening or failure of financial institution counterparties may adversely affect our hedging programs and our financial condition through, among other things, a reduction in available counterparties, increasingly unfavorable terms, and the failure of the counterparties to perform under hedging contracts.
20 Table of Contents Significant key customers or large orders may expose us to additional business and legal risks that could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition.
Certain significant key customers have substantial purchasing power and leverage in negotiating contractual arrangements with us.  These customers may demand contract terms that differ considerably from our standard terms and conditions.  Large orders may also include severe contractual liabilities for us if we fail to provide the quantity and quality of product at the required delivery times.  While we attempt to contractually limit our potential liability under such contracts, we expect to be forced to agree to some or all of these types of provisions to secure these orders and to continue to grow our business.  Such actions expose us to significant additional risks which could result in a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition.
Our business will suffer if we are not able to retain and hire key personnel.
Our future success depends partly on the continued service of our key research, engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing, executive and administrative personnel. If we fail to retain and hire a sufficient number of these personnel, we will not be able to maintain or expand our business. The markets in which we operate are very dynamic, and our businesses continue to respond with reorganizations, workforce reductions and site closures. We believe our pay levels are very competitive within the regions that we operate. However, there is also intense competition for certain highly technical specialties in geographic areas where we continue to recruit, and it may become more difficult to retain our key employees, especially in light of our ongoing restructuring efforts.
Our acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures may result in financial results that are different than expected.
In the normal course of business, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties relating to possible acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures, and generally expect to complete several transactions per year. For example in the past we completed various acquisitions, including Dako A/S, Halo Genomics AB and the test systems division of AT4 wireless. As a result of such transactions, our financial results may differ from our own or the investment community's expectations in a given fiscal quarter, or over the long term. Such transactions often have post-closing arrangements including but not limited to post-closing adjustments, transition services, escrows or indemnifications, the financial results of which can be difficult to predict. In addition, acquisitions and strategic alliances may require us to integrate a different company culture, management team and business infrastructure. We may have difficulty developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly acquired company in a way that enhances the performance of our combined businesses or product lines to realize the value from expected synergies. Depending on the size and complexity of an acquisition, our successful integration of the entity depends on a variety of factors, including:  the retention of key employees;  the management of facilities and employees in different geographic areas;  the retention of key customers;  the compatibility of our sales programs and facilities with those of the acquired company; and  the compatibility of our existing infrastructure with that of an acquired company.
In addition, effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable and accurate financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. The integration of acquired businesses is likely to result in our systems and controls becoming increasingly complex and more difficult to manage. We devote significant resources and time to comply with the internal control over financial reporting requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. However, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we design, implement and maintain adequate control over our financial processes and reporting in the future, especially in the context of acquisitions of other businesses. Any difficulties in the assimilation of acquired businesses into our control system could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock and our access to capital.
A successful divestiture depends on various factors, including our ability to:  effectively transfer liabilities, contracts, facilities and employees to the purchaser;  identify and separate the intellectual property to be divested from the intellectual property that we wish to keep; and  reduce fixed costs previously associated with the divested assets or business.
In addition, if customers of the divested business do not receive the same level of service from the new owners, this may adversely affect our other businesses to the extent that these customers also purchase other Agilent products. All of these efforts 21 Table of Contents require varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. Further, if market conditions or other factors lead us to change our strategic direction, we may not realize the expected value from such transactions. If we do not realize the expected benefits or synergies of such transactions, our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and stock price could be negatively impacted.
If we do not achieve the contemplated benefits of our acquisition and integration of Dako A/S, our business and financial condition may be materially impaired.
We may not achieve the desired benefits from our acquisition and integration of Dako. In addition, the operation of Dako within Agilent could be a costly and time-consuming process that involves a number of risks, including, but not limited to:  difficulties in the assimilation of different corporate cultures, practices and sales and distribution methodologies, as well as in the assimilation and retention of geographically dispersed, decentralized operations and personnel;  increased exposure to certain governmental regulations and compliance requirements;  the potential loss of key personnel who choose not to remain with Dako or Agilent;  the potential loss of key customers or suppliers who choose not to do business with the combined business; and  the use of cash resources and increased capital expenditures on additional investment or research and development activities in excess of our current expectations, which could offset any synergies resulting from the Dako acquisition and limit other potential uses of our cash, including stock repurchases and retirement of outstanding debt.
Even if we are able to successfully operate Dako within Agilent, we may not be able to realize the revenue and other synergies and growth that we anticipate from the acquisition in the time frame that we currently expect, and the costs of achieving these benefits may be higher than what we currently expect, because of a number of risks, including, but not limited to:  the possibility that the acquisition may not further our business strategy as we expected;  the possibility that we may not be able to expand the reach and customer base for Dako current and future products as expected;  the possibility that we may not be able to expand the reach and customer base for Agilent products as expected;  the possibility that the carrying amounts of goodwill and other purchased intangible assets may not be recoverable; and  the fact that the acquisition will substantially expand our diagnostics business, and we may not experience anticipated growth in that market.
As a result of these risks, the Dako acquisition and integration may not contribute to our earnings as expected, we may not achieve expected revenue synergies or our return on invested capital targets when expected, or at all, and we may not achieve the other anticipated strategic and financial benefits of this transaction.
The impact of consolidation and acquisitions of competitors is difficult to predict and may harm our business.
The electronic measurement and life sciences industries are intensely competitive and have been subject to increasing consolidation. For instance, Danaher Corporation completed its acquisition of IRIS International in November 2012; Thermo Fisher Scientific announced its acquisition of Life Technologies in April 2013 and completed its acquisitions of  Doe& Ingalls in May2012 and One Lambda in September 2012; and PerkinElmer completed its acquisition of Haoyuan Biotech in November 2012. Consolidation in our industries could result in existing competitors increasing their market share through business combinations and result in stronger competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to compete successfully in increasingly consolidated industries and cannot predict with certainty how industry consolidation will affect our competitors or us.
Our customers and we are subject to various governmental regulations, compliance with or changes in such regulations may cause us to incur significant expenses, and if we fail to maintain satisfactory compliance with certain regulations, we may be forced to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution, and we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties.
Our customers and we are subject to various significant international, federal, state and local regulations, including but not limited to health and safety, packaging, product content, labor and import/export regulations. These regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. We may be required to incur significant expenses to comply with these regulations or to remedy violations of these regulations. Any failure by us to comply with applicable government regulations could also result in cessation of our operations or portions of our operations, product recalls or impositions of fines and restrictions on our ability to carry on or expand our operations. In addition, because many of our products are regulated or sold into regulated industries, we must comply with additional regulations in marketing our products. We develop, configure and 22 Table of Contents market our products to meet customer needs created by these regulations. Any significant change in these regulations could reduce demand for our products, force us to modify our products to comply with new regulations or increase our costs of producing these products. If demand for our products is adversely affected or our costs increase, our business would suffer.
Our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies, like the International Standards Organization, as well as regulation by other agencies such as the U.S. Federal Communications Commission. We also must comply with work safety rules. If we fail to adequately address any of these regulations, our businesses could be harmed.
Some of our chemical analysis and life sciences and diagnostics products are exposed to particular complex regulations such as regulations of toxic substances and medical devices, and failure to comply with such regulations could harm our business.
Some of our chemical analysis products and related consumables marketed by our chemical analysis and life sciences and diagnostics businesses are used in conjunction with chemicals whose manufacture, processing, distribution and notification requirements are regulated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) under the Toxic Substances Control Act, and by regulatory bodies in other countries with similar laws. The Toxic Substances Control Act regulations govern, among other things, the testing, manufacture, processing and distribution of chemicals, the testing of regulated chemicals for their effects on human health and safety and import and export of chemicals. The Toxic Substances Control Act prohibits persons from manufacturing any chemical in the U.S. that has not been reviewed by EPA for its effect on health and safety, and placed on an EPA inventory of chemical substances. We must conform the manufacturing, processing, distribution of and notification about these chemicals to these laws and adapt to regulatory requirements in all applicable countries as these requirements change. If we fail to comply with the notification, record-keeping and other requirements in the manufacture or distribution of our products, then we could be made to pay civil penalties, face criminal prosecution and, in some cases, be prohibited from distributing or marketing our products until the products or component substances are brought into compliance.
A number of our products from our chemical analysis and life sciences and diagnostics businesses are subject to regulation by the United States Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") and certain similar foreign regulatory agencies. In addition, a number of our products may be in the future subject to regulation by the FDA and certain similar foreign regulatory agencies.  These regulations govern a wide variety of product related activities, from quality management, design and development to labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales and distribution. If we or any of our suppliers or distributors fail to comply with FDA and other applicable regulatory requirements or are perceived to potentially have failed to comply, we may face, among other things, adverse publicity affecting both us and our customers; investigations or notices of non-compliance, fines, injunctions, and civil penalties; import or export restrictions; partial suspensions or total shutdown of production facilities or the imposition of operating restrictions; increased difficulty in obtaining required FDA clearances or approvals; seizures or recalls of our products or those of our customers; or the inability to sell our products.
Our business may suffer if we fail to comply with government contracting laws and regulations.
We derive a portion of our revenues from direct and indirect sales to U.S., state, local, and foreign governments and their respective agencies. Such contracts are subject to various procurement laws and regulations, and contract provisions relating to their formation, administration and performance. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations or provisions in our government contracts could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, or suspension from future government contracting. On March 4, 2013, we made a report to the Inspector General of the Department of Defense regarding pricing irregularities relating to certain sales of electronic measurement products to U.S. government agencies.  See Item 3. "Legal Proceedings". If our government contracts are terminated, if we are suspended from government work, or if our ability to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, our business could suffer.
Dependence on contract manufacturing and outsourcing other portions of our supply chain may adversely affect our ability to bring products to market and damage our reputation. Dependence on outsourced information technology and other administrative functions may impair our ability to operate effectively.
As part of our efforts to streamline operations and to cut costs, we outsource aspects of our manufacturing processes and other functions and continue to evaluate additional outsourcing. If our contract manufacturers or other outsourcers fail to perform their obligations in a timely manner or at satisfactory quality levels, our ability to bring products to market and our reputation could suffer. For example, during a market upturn, our contract manufacturers may be unable to meet our demand requirements, which may preclude us from fulfilling our customers' orders on a timely basis. The ability of these manufacturers to perform is largely outside of our control. Additionally, changing or replacing our contract manufacturers or other outsourcers could cause disruptions or delays. In addition, we outsource significant portions of our information technology ("IT") and other administrative 23 Table of Contents functions. Since IT is critical to our operations, any failure to perform on the part of our IT providers could impair our ability to operate effectively. In addition to the risks outlined above, problems with manufacturing or IT outsourcing could result in lower revenues, unexecuted efficiencies, and impact our results of operations and our stock price. Much of our outsourcing takes place in developing countries and, as a result, may be subject to geopolitical uncertainty.
If we are unable to successfully manage the consolidation and streamlining of our manufacturing operations, we may not achieve desired efficiencies and our ability to deliver products to our customers could be disrupted.
Although we utilize manufacturing facilities throughout the world, we have been consolidating, and may continue to consolidate, our manufacturing operations to certain of our plants to achieve efficiencies and gross margin improvements. Additionally, we typically consolidate the production of products from our acquisitions into our supply chain and manufacturing processes, which are technically complex and require expertise to operate. If we are unable to establish processes to efficiently and effectively produce high quality products in the consolidated locations, we may not achieve the anticipated synergies and production may be disrupted, which could adversely affect our business and operating results.
Our operating results may suffer if our manufacturing capacity does not match the demand for our products.
Because we cannot immediately adapt our production capacity and related cost structures to rapidly changing market conditions, when demand does not meet our expectations, our manufacturing capacity will likely exceed our production requirements. If, during a general market upturn or an upturn in one of our segments, we cannot increase our manufacturing capacity to meet product demand, we will not be able to fulfill orders in a timely manner which could lead to order cancellations, contract breaches or indemnification obligations. This inability could materially and adversely limit our ability to improve our results. By contrast, if during an economic downturn we had excess manufacturing capacity, then our fixed costs associated with excess manufacturing capacity would adversely affect our income, margins, and operating results.
Demand for some of our products and services depends on capital spending policies of our customers and on government funding policies.
Our customers include pharmaceutical companies, laboratories, universities, healthcare providers, government agencies and public and private research institutions. Fluctuations in the research and development budgets at these organizations could have a significant effect on the demand for our products and services.  Many factors, including public policy spending priorities, available resources, mergers and consolidation, spending priorities, institutional and governmental budgetary policies and product and economic cycles, have a significant effect on the capital spending policies of these entities. These policies in turn can have a significant effect on the demand for our products and services. If demand for our products and services is adversely affected, our revenue and operating results would suffer.
Environmental contamination from past operations could subject us to unreimbursed costs and could harm on-site operations and the future use and value of the properties involved and environmental contamination caused by ongoing operations could subject us to substantial liabilities in the future.
Some of our properties are undergoing remediation by the Hewlett-Packard Company ("HP") for subsurface contaminations that were known at the time of our separation from HP. HP has agreed to retain the liability for this subsurface contamination, perform the required remediation and indemnify us with respect to claims arising out of that contamination. HP will have access to our properties to perform remediation. While HP has agreed to minimize interference with on-site operations at those properties, remediation activities and subsurface contamination may require us to incur unreimbursed costs and could harm on-site operations and the future use and value of the properties. We cannot be sure that HP will continue to fulfill its indemnification or remediation obligations. In addition, the determination of the existence and cost of any additional contamination caused by us could involve costly and time-consuming negotiations and litigation.
We have agreed to indemnify HP for any liability associated with contamination from past operations at all other properties transferred from HP to us, other than those properties currently undergoing remediation by HP. While we are not aware of any material liabilities associated with any potential subsurface contamination at any of those properties, subsurface contamination may exist, and we may be exposed to material liability as a result of the existence of that contamination.
Our current and historical manufacturing processes involve, or have involved, the use of substances regulated under various international, federal, state and local laws governing the environment. As a result, we may become subject to liabilities for environmental contamination, and these liabilities may be substantial. While we have divested substantially all of our semiconductor related businesses to Avago and Verigy and regardless of indemnification arrangements with those parties, we may still become subject to liabilities for historical environmental contamination related to those businesses. Although our policy is to apply strict 24 Table of Contents standards for environmental protection at our sites inside and outside the U.S., even if the sites outside the U.S. are not subject to regulations imposed by foreign governments, we may not be aware of all conditions that could subject us to liability.
As part of our acquisition of Varian, we assumed the liabilities of Varian, including Varian's costs and potential liabilities for environmental matters. One such cost is our obligation, along with the obligation of Varian Semiconductor Equipment Associates,Inc. ("VSEA") (under the terms of a Distribution Agreement between Varian, VSEA and Varian Medical Systems,Inc. ("VMS")) to each indemnify VMS for one-third of certain costs (after adjusting for any insurance proceeds and tax benefits recognized or realized by VMS for such costs) relating to (a)environmental investigation, monitoring and/or remediation activities at certain facilities previously operated by Varian Associates,Inc. ("VAI") and third-party claims made in connection with environmental conditions at those facilities, and (b)U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or third-party claims alleging that VAI or VMS is a potentially responsible party under the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended ("CERCLA") in connection with certain sites to which VAI allegedly shipped manufacturing waste for recycling, treatment or disposal (the "CERCLA sites"). With respect to the facilities formerly operated by VAI, VMS is overseeing the environmental investigation, monitoring and/or remediation activities, in most cases under the direction of, or in consultation with, federal, state and/or local agencies, and handling third-party claims. VMS is also handling claims relating to the CERCLA sites. Although any ultimate liability arising from environmental- related matters could result in significant expenditures that, if aggregated and assumed to occur within a single fiscal year, could be material to our financial statements, the likelihood of such occurrence is considered remote. Based on information currently available and our best assessment of the ultimate amount and timing of environmental-related events, management believes that the costs of environmental-related matters are unlikely to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.
New regulations related to conflict minerals may cause us to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products.
On August 22, 2012, the SEC adopted a new rule requiring disclosures by public companies of specified minerals, known as conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured. The new rule, which went into effect for calendar year 2013 and requires a disclosure report to be filed with the SEC by May 31, 2014, will require companies to perform due diligence, disclose and report whether or not such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo or an adjoining country. The new rule could affect sourcing at competitive prices and availability in sufficient quantities of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products, including tin, gold and tungsten. The number of suppliers who provide conflict-free minerals may be limited. In addition, there may be material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to the due diligence process of determining the source of certain minerals used in our products, as well as costs of possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. As our supply chain is complex and we use contract manufacturers for some of our products, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the relevant minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may harm our reputation. We may also encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict-free, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage if we are unable to do so.
Our retirement and post retirement pension plans are subject to financial market risks that could adversely affect our future results of operations and cash flows.
We have significant retirement and post retirement pension plans assets and obligations. The performance of the financial markets and interest rates impact our plan expenses and funding obligations. Significant decreases in market interest rates, decreases in the fair value of plan assets and investment losses on plan assets will increase our funding obligations, and adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows.
Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products or services.
From time to time, third parties may claim that one or more of our products or services infringe their intellectual property rights. We analyze and take action in response to such claims on a case by case basis. Any dispute or litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming due to the complexity of our technology and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. A claim of intellectual property infringement could force us to enter into a costly or restrictive license agreement, which might not be available under acceptable terms or at all, could require us to redesign our products, which would be costly and time-consuming, and/or could subject us to significant damages or to an injunction against development and sale of certain of our products or services. Our intellectual property portfolio may not be useful in asserting a counterclaim, or negotiating a license, in response to a claim 25 Table of Contents of intellectual property infringement. In certain of our businesses we rely on third party intellectual property licenses and we cannot ensure that these licenses will be available to us in the future on favorable terms or at all.
Third parties may infringe our intellectual property and we may suffer competitive injury or expend significant resources enforcing our rights.
Our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology, including technology we obtained through acquisitions. We rely on various intellectual property rights, including patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, as well as confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements, to establish our proprietary rights. If we do not enforce our intellectual property rights successfully our competitive position may suffer which could harm our operating results.
Our pending patent applications, and our pending copyright and trademark registration applications, may not be allowed or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents, copyrights or trademarks. In addition, our patents, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not provide us a significant competitive advantage.
We may need to spend significant resources monitoring our intellectual property rights and we may or may not be able to detect infringement by third parties. Our competitive position may be harmed if we cannot detect infringement and enforce our intellectual property rights quickly or at all. In some circumstances, we may choose to not pursue enforcement because an infringer has a dominant intellectual property position or for other business reasons. In addition, competitors might avoid infringement by designing around our intellectual property rights or by developing non-infringing competing technologies. Intellectual property rights and our ability to enforce them may be unavailable or limited in some countries which could make it easier for competitors to capture market share and could result in lost revenues. Furthermore, some of our intellectual property is licensed to others which allow them to compete with us using that intellectual property.
We are subject to ongoing tax examinations of our tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. An adverse outcome of any such audit or examination by the IRS or other tax authority could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
We are subject to ongoing tax examinations of our tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities in various jurisdictions. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from ongoing tax examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. These assessments can require considerable estimates and judgments. Intercompany transactions associated with the sale of inventory, services, intellectual property and cost share arrangements are complex and affect our tax liabilities. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations in multiple jurisdictions. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from ongoing tax examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. A difference in the ultimate resolution of tax uncertainties from what is currently estimated could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.
If tax incentives change or cease to be in effect, our income taxes could increase significantly.
Agilent benefits from tax incentives extended to its foreign subsidiaries to encourage investment or employment. Several jurisdictions have granted Agilent tax incentives which require renewal at various times in the future. The incentives are conditioned on achieving various thresholds of investments and employment, or specific types of income. Agilent's taxes could increase if the incentives are not renewed upon expiration. If Agilent cannot or does not wish to satisfy all or parts of the tax incentive conditions, we may lose the related tax incentive and could be required to refund tax incentives previously realized. As a result, our effective tax rate could be higher than it would have been had we maintained the benefits of the tax incentives.
We have substantial cash requirements in the United States while most of our cash is generated outside of the United States. The failure to maintain a level of cash sufficient to address our cash requirements in the United States could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
Although the cash generated in the United States from our operations covers our normal operating requirements and debt service requirements, a substantial amount of additional cash is required for special purposes such as the maturity of our debt obligations, our stock repurchase program, our declared dividends and acquisitions of third parties. Our business operating results, financial condition, and strategic initiatives could be adversely impacted if we were unable to address our U.S. cash requirements through the efficient and timely repatriations of overseas cash or other sources of cash obtained at an acceptable cost.
26 Table of Contents We have outstanding debt and may incur other debt in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.
We currently have outstanding an aggregate principal amount of $2.6billion in senior unsecured notes and a $46 million secured mortgage. We also are a party to a five-year senior unsecured revolving credit facility which expires in October 2016 and under which we may borrow up to $400million and a Danish Krone denominated credit facility equivalent to $9 million. We may borrow additional amounts in the future and use the proceeds from any future borrowing for general corporate purposes, other future acquisitions, expansion of our business or repurchases of our outstanding shares of common stock.
Our incurrence of this debt, and increases in our aggregate levels of debt, may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition by, among other things:  increasing our vulnerability to downturns in our business, to competitive pressures and to adverse economic and industry conditions;  requiring the dedication of an increased portion of our expected cash from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of expected cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures, acquisitions and stock repurchases; and  limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry.
Our current revolving credit facility imposes restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to create liens on our assets and the ability of our subsidiaries to incur indebtedness, and requires us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. Our ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control. In addition, the indenture governing our senior notes contains covenants that may adversely affect our ability to incur certain liens or engage in certain types of sale and leaseback transactions. If we breach any of the covenants and do not obtain a waiver from the lenders, then, subject to applicable cure periods, our outstanding indebtedness could be declared immediately due and payable.
If we suffer a loss to our factories, facilities or distribution system due to catastrophe, our operations could be seriously harmed.
Our factories, facilities and distribution system are subject to catastrophic loss due to fire, flood, terrorism or other natural or man-made disasters. In particular, several of our facilities could be subject to a catastrophic loss caused by earthquake due to their locations. Our production facilities, headquarters and Agilent Technologies Laboratories in California, and our production facilities in Japan, are all located in areas with above-average seismic activity. If any of these facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. If such a disruption were to occur, we could breach agreements, our reputation could be harmed, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, since we have consolidated our manufacturing facilities, we are more likely to experience an interruption to our operations in the event of a catastrophe in any one location. Although we carry insurance for property damage and business interruption, we do not carry insurance or financial reserves for interruptions or potential losses arising from earthquakes or terrorism. Also, our third party insurance coverage will vary from time to time in both type and amount depending on availability, cost and our decisions with respect to risk retention. Economic conditions and uncertainties in global markets may adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain third party insurance. If our third party insurance coverage is adversely affected, or to the extent we have elected to self-insure, we may be at a greater risk that our operations will be harmed by a catastrophic loss.
If we experience a significant disruption in, or breach in security of, our information technology systems, or if we fail to implement new systems and software successfully, our business could be adversely affected.
We rely on several centralized information technology systems throughout our company to provide products and services, keep financial records, process orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers and operate other critical functions. Our information technology systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, telecommunication failures, user errors, catastrophes or other unforeseen events. If we were to experience a prolonged system disruption in the information technology systems that involve our interactions with customers or suppliers, it could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, security breaches of our information technology systems could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our employees, partners, customers or suppliers, which could result in our suffering significant financial or reputational damage.
27 Table of Contents Adverse conditions in the global banking industry and credit markets may adversely impact the value of our cash investments or impair our liquidity.
As of October 31, 2013, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $2.68 billion invested or held in a mix of money market funds, time deposit accounts and bank demand deposit accounts. Disruptions in the financial markets may, in some cases, result in an inability to access assets such as money market funds that traditionally have been viewed as highly liquid. Any failure of our counterparty financial institutions or funds in which we have invested may adversely impact our cash and cash equivalent positions and, in turn, our results and financial condition.
Item1B.
Unresolved Staff Comments None.
Item2.
Properties As of October31, 2013 we owned or leased a total of approximately 10.6million square feet of space worldwide. Of that, we owned approximately 8.1million square feet and leased the remaining 2.5million square feet. Our sales and support facilities occupied a total of approximately 1.3million square feet. Our manufacturing plants, R&D facilities and warehouse and administrative facilities occupied approximately 9.3million square feet. All of our businesses share sales offices throughout the world.
Information about each of our businesses appears below: Life Sciences & Diagnostics Group.
Our life sciences and diagnostics business has manufacturing and R&D facilities in Singapore, Malaysia, Denmark, Germany, Poland, U.K. and the U.S.
Chemical Analysis Group.
Our chemical analysis measurement business has manufacturing and R&D facilities in Australia, China, Malaysia, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, U.K. and the U.S.
Electronic Measurement Group.
Our electronic measurement business has manufacturing and R&D facilities in China, Germany, Japan, Malaysia, Singapore, India and the U.S.
Item3.
Legal Proceedings We are involved in lawsuits, claims, investigations and proceedings, including, but not limited to, patent, commercial and environmental matters, which arise in the ordinary course of business. There are no matters pending that we currently believe are reasonably possible of having a material impact to our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
On March 4, 2013, we made a report to the Inspector General of the Department of Defense (DOD IG) regarding pricing irregularities relating to certain sales of electronic measurement products to U.S. government agencies. We have conducted a thorough investigation with the help of external counsel, and we have approached the DOD IG with a proposed methodology for resolving possible overcharges to U.S. government purchasers resulting from these sales. Based on our investigation and our interactions with the DOD IG, we do not believe that this matter is reasonably possible of having a material impact on Agilent's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. As of October 31, 2013, we have accrued for this matter based on our current understanding.
As part of routine internal audit activities, the Company determined that certain employees of Agilent's subsidiaries in China did not comply with the Company's Standards of Business Conduct and other policies. Based on those findings, the Company has initiated an internal investigation, with the assistance of outside counsel, relating to certain sales of our products through third party intermediaries in China. The internal investigation includes a review of compliance by our employees in China with the requirements of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other applicable laws and regulations. On September 5, 2013, the Company voluntarily contacted the United States Securities and Exchange Commission and United States Department of Justice to advise both agencies of this internal investigation. We will cooperate with any government investigation of this matter. At this point, we cannot predict or estimate the duration, scope, cost, or result of this matter, or whether the government will commence any legal action, which could result in possible fines and penalties, criminal or civil sanctions, or other consequences. Accordingly, no provision with respect to these matters has been made in the Company's consolidated financial statements. Adverse findings or other negative outcomes from any governmental proceedings could have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements in future periods.
28 Table of Contents Item4.
Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable.
PART II Item5.
Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange with the ticker symbol A. The following table sets forth the high and low sale prices and the dividend declarations per quarter for the 2012 and 2013 fiscal years as reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system for the New York Stock Exchange: Fiscal 2012 High Low Dividends First Quarter (ended January31, 2012) $ 44.85 $ 32.51 $0.10 Second Quarter (ended April30, 2012) $ 46.28 $ 39.15 N/A Third Quarter (ended July31, 2012) $ 43.27 $ 35.32 $0.10 Fourth Quarter (ended October31, 2012) $ 40.97 $ 35.38 $0.10 Fiscal 2013 High Low Dividends First Quarter (ended January31, 2013) $ 45.55 $ 35.45 $0.22 Second Quarter (ended April30, 2013) $ 45.66 $ 40.19 N/A Third Quarter (ended July31, 2013) $ 47.47 $ 41.24 $0.12 Fourth Quarter (ended October31, 2013) $ 53.47 $ 45.32 $0.12 As of December1, 2013, there were 30,054 common stockholders of record.
During fiscal 2013, we issued four quarterly dividends, one of $0.10 per share and three of $0.12 per share. All decisions regarding the declaration and payment of dividends are at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will be evaluated regularly in light of our financial condition, earnings, growth prospects, funding requirements, applicable law, and any other factors that our Board deems relevant. The information required by this item with respect to equity compensation plans is included under the caption Equity Compensation Plans in our proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to be heldMarch 19, 2014, to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation14A, and is incorporated herein by reference.
ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES The table below summarizes information about the companys purchases, based on trade date; of its equity securities registered pursuant to Section12 of the Exchange Act during the quarterly period ended October31, 2013. The total number of shares of common stock purchased by the company during the year ended October31, 2013 is 20,544,054 shares.
Period Total Number of Shares of Common Stock Purchased(1) Weighted Average Price Paid per Share of Common Stock(2) Total Number of Shares of Common Stock Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs(1) Maximum Approximate Dollar Value of Shares of Common Stock that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (in millions) (a) (b) (c) (d) Aug.1, 2013 through Aug.31, 2013  N/A  100 Sep. 1, 2013 through Sep. 30, 2013  N/A  100 Oct.1, 2013 through Oct.31, 2013  N/A  100 Total  N/A  (1) On January 17, 2013, we announced that our board of directors approved a share repurchase program authorizing the use of up to $500 million to repurchase shares of the Company's common stock in open market transactions, inclusive of any amounts repurchased since November 1, 2012 (the 2013 Repurchase Program). On May 14, 2013, we announced that our board of directors authorized a $500 million increase to the 2013 Repurchase Program, bringing the cumulative authorization to $1 29 Table of Contents billion. Unless terminated earlier by the board of directors, the 2013 Repurchase Program is designed to cover purchases from November 1, 2012 through December 31, 2013, and any unused portion may be used in calendar year 2014. The 2013 Repurchase Program does not require the Company to acquire a specific number of shares and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. As of October 31, 2013, $100 million remained under the 2013 Repurchase Program. We repurchased the remaining $100 million worth of shares under the 2013 repurchase program in November 2013.
On November 22, 2013 we announced that our board of directors has authorized a new share repurchase program effective upon the conclusion of the company's existing $1 billion repurchase program. The new program is designed to reduce or eliminate dilution resulting from issuance of stock under the company's employee equity incentive programs to maintain a weighted average share count of approximately 335 million diluted shares.
(2) The weighted average price paid per share of common stock does not include the cost of commissions.
Item6.
Selected Financial Data SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA (Unaudited) Years Ended October31, 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 (in millions, except per share data) Consolidated Statement of Operations Data: (2) (1) Net revenue $ 6,782 $ 6,858 $ 6,615 $ 5,444 $ 4,481 Income before taxes $ 859 $ 1,043 $ 1,032 $ 692 $ 7 Net income (loss) $ 724 $ 1,153 $ 1,012 $ 684 $ (31 ) Net income (loss) per share Basic: $ 2.12 $ 3.31 $ 2.92 $ 1.97 $ (0.09 ) Net income (loss) per share Diluted: $ 2.10 $ 3.27 $ 2.85 $ 1.94 $ (0.09 ) Weighted average shares used in computing basic net income (loss) per share 341 348 347 347 346 Weighted average shares used in computing diluted net income (loss) per share 345 353 355 353 346 Cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.46 $ 0.30    October31, 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 (in millions) Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: (2) (1) Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments $ 2,675 $ 2,351 $ 3,527 $ 2,649 $ 2,493 Working capital $ 3,381 $ 2,736 $ 3,732 $ 3,086 $ 2,838 Long-term restricted cash and cash equivalents $  $  $  $  $ 1,566 Total assets $ 10,686 $ 10,536 $ 9,057 $ 9,696 $ 7,612 Long-term debt $ 2,699 $ 2,112 $ 1,932 $ 2,190 $ 2,904 Stockholders' equity $ 5,286 $ 5,182 $ 4,308 $ 3,228 $ 2,506 (1) Consolidated financial data includes Varian, acquired on May 14, 2010.
(2) Consolidated financial data includes Dako, acquired on June 21, 2012 and a non-recurring tax benefit relating to the reversal of U.S. valuation allowance of $280 million.
30 Table of Contents Item7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form10-K. This report contains forward-looking statements including, without limitation, statements regarding trends, seasonality, cyclicality and growth in, and drivers of, the markets we sell into, our strategic direction, our future effective tax rate and tax valuation allowance, earnings from our foreign subsidiaries, remediation activities, new product and service introductions, the ability of our products to meet market needs, changes to our manufacturing processes, the use of contract manufacturers, the impact of local government regulations on our ability to pay vendors or conduct operations, our liquidity position, our ability to generate cash from operations, growth in our businesses, our investments, the potential impact of adopting new accounting pronouncements, our financial results, our purchase commitments, our contributions to our pension plans, the selection of discount rates and recognition of any gains or losses for our benefit plans, our cost-control activities, savings and headcount reduction recognized from our restructuring programs and other cost saving initiatives, uncertainties relating to Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") and other regulatory approvals, the integration of our acquisitions and other transactions, the separation of the electronic measurement business, our stock repurchase program, our declared dividends, our transition to lower-cost regions, and the existence of economic instability, that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to various factors, including those discussed in Item1A and elsewhere in this Form10-K.
Overview and Executive Summary Agilent Technologies,Inc. (we, Agilent or the company), incorporated in Delaware in May 1999, is the world's premier measurement company providing core bio-analytical and electronic measurement solutions to the life sciences, diagnostics and genomics, chemical analysis, communications and electronics industries. Our fiscal year end is October31. Unless otherwise stated, all years and dates refer to our fiscal year.
On September 19, 2013, Agilent announced plans to separate into two publicly traded companies, one comprising of the life sciences, diagnostics and chemical analysis businesses that will retain the Agilent name and the other that will be comprised of the electronic measurement business ("EM"). The separation is expected to occur through a tax-free pro rata spin off of the EM company to Agilent shareholders and is expected to be completed early in November 2014.  We expect to incur pre-separation expenses of $100 million in fiscal 2014.
In addition to the announcement to separate into two companies, we formed a new operating segment in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2013. The new life sciences and diagnostics segment was formed by the combination of the life sciences business plus the diagnostics and genomics business. Following this reorganization, Agilent has three business segments comprised of the life sciences and diagnostics business, the chemical analysis business and the electronic measurement business.  The historical segment financial information for the life sciences and diagnostics segment has been recast to conform to this new reporting structure in our financial statements.
On June 21, 2012, we completed our acquisition of Dako A/S through the acquisition of 100% of the share capital of Dako A/S, a limited liability company incorporated under the laws of Denmark (Dako), under the share purchase agreement, dated May 16, 2012. Dako provides antibodies, reagents, scientific instruments and software primarily to customers in pathology laboratories. As a result of the acquisition, Dako became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Agilent. The consideration paid was approximately $2,143 million, of which $1,400 million was paid directly to the seller and $743 million was paid to satisfy the outstanding debt of Dako. Agilent funded the acquisition using existing cash. The acquisition has been accounted for in accordance with the authoritative accounting guidance and the results of Dako are included in Agilent's consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. The acquisition of Dako and its portfolio is another step to increase our growth in several rapidly expanding areas of diagnostics, including anatomic pathology and molecular diagnostics, as well as strengthen our existing offerings with a focus on product development to help in the fight against cancer. For additional details related to the acquisition of Dako, see Note 3, "Acquisitions".
Agilent's total orders in 2013 were $6,827 million, a decrease of 1 percent when compared to 2012. Foreign currency movements had an unfavorable impact of approximately 2 percentage points for the year ended October 31, 2013 when compared to 2012. The increase in orders associated with the Dako acquisition accounted for approximately 3 percentage points of total order growth for the year ended October31, 2013 when compared to 2012. Within our life sciences and diagnostics business orders increased 16 percent in 2013 compared to 2012 with 13 percentage points of order increase attributable to the Dako acquisition.  Chemical analysis orders increased 2 percent in 2013 when compared to 2012 and electronic measurement businesses orders decreased 13 percent when compared to 2012. Agilent's total orders in 2012 increased 2percent when compared to 2011. The 31 Table of Contents increase in orders associated with the Dako acquisition accounted for 2 percentage points of order growth for the year ended October31, 2012 when compared to 2011.
Agilent's net revenue of $6,782million decreased 1percent when compared to 2012. Foreign currency movements for 2013 had an unfavorable impact of approximately 1percentage point compared to 2012. Revenue associated with the Dako acquisition accounted for approximately 4percentage points of the revenue growth for the year ended October31, 2013 when compared to 2012. Within our life sciences and diagnostics business revenue increased 16 percent in 2013 compared to 2012 with 13 percentage points of revenue increase attributable to the Dako acquisition. Excluding the effects of the Dako acquisition, there was growth in demand for life sciences and diagnostics products and services led by pharmaceutical and biotechnology and clinical markets. There was a decrease in demand from the academic and government market for the year ended October31, 2013, when compared to the prior year. Within our chemical analysis business revenue grew 2 percent in 2013 compared with the prior year. There were modest increases in revenue from the food safety and petrochemical markets, but environmental and forensics markets were down when compared to the prior year. Within electronic measurement, total revenue decreased when compared to the prior year by 13 percent. General purpose markets decreased with aerospace and defense flat and computer and semi-conductor markets down when compared to 2012. Also within electronic measurement, the communications test business decreased for the year ended October31, 2013 when compared to the prior year with wireless R&D down moderately but wireless manufacturing showing a significant shortfall compared to the prior year mostly driven by the loss of business from a large customer with whom we could not agree on contractual terms. Agilent's total net revenue in 2012 increased 4percent when compared to 2011. The revenue increase associated with the Dako acquisition accounted for approximately 2percentage points of revenue increase for the year ended October31, 2012 when compared to 2011. Foreign currency movements for 2012 had an unfavorable impact of approximately 1 percentage point compared to 2011.
Net income was $724 million in 2013 compared to net income of $1,153 million and $1,012million in 2012 and 2011, respectively. In 2013, 2012 and 2011 we generated operating cash flows of $1,152 million, $1,228million and $1,260million, respectively. As of October31, 2013 and 2012 we had cash and cash equivalents balances of $2,675 million and $2,351million, respectively.
Looking forward, in the near term we are in a slow-growth environment within electronic measurement which remains challenging. There are indications that our electronic measurement business will return to a growth position next year.  We expect positive trends to continue in our other businesses.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable. Although these estimates are based on management's best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact the company in the future, actual results may be different from the estimates.  An accounting policy is deemed to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and if different estimates that reasonably could have been used or changes in the accounting estimate that are reasonably likely to occur could materially change the financial statements. Our critical accounting policies are those that affect our financial statements materially and involve difficult, subjective or complex judgments by management. Those policies are revenue recognition, inventory valuation, share-based compensation, retirement and post-retirement plan assumptions, valuation of goodwill and purchased intangible assets, restructuring and accounting for income taxes.
Revenue recognition.
We enter into agreements to sell products (hardware or software), services, and other arrangements (multiple element arrangements) that include combinations of products and services. Revenue from product sales, net of trade discounts and allowances, is recognized provided that persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Delivery is considered to have occurred when title and risk of loss have transferred to the customer. Revenue is reduced for estimated product returns, when appropriate. For sales that include customer-specified acceptance criteria, revenue is recognized after the acceptance criteria have been met. For products that include installation, if the installation meets the criteria to be considered a separate element, product revenue is recognized upon delivery, and recognition of installation revenue occurs when the installation is complete. Otherwise, neither the product nor the installation revenue is recognized until the installation is complete. Revenue from services is deferred and recognized over the contractual period or as services are rendered and accepted by the customer. We allocate revenue to each element in our multiple-element arrangements based upon their relative selling prices. We determine the selling price for each deliverable based on a selling price hierarchy. The selling price for a deliverable is based on our vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE) if available, third-party evidence (TPE) if VSOE is not available, or estimated selling price (ESP) if neither VSOE nor TPE is available. Revenue from the sale of software products that are not required to deliver the tangible product's essential functionality are accounted for under 32 Table of Contents software revenue recognition rules. Revenue allocated to each element is then recognized when the basic revenue recognition criteria for that element have been met. The amount of product revenue recognized is affected by our judgments as to whether an arrangement includes multiple elements.
We use VSOE of selling price in the selling price allocation in all instances where it exists. VSOE of selling price for products and services is determined when a substantial majority of the selling prices fall within a reasonable range when sold separately. TPE of selling price can be established by evaluating largely interchangeable competitor products or services in standalone sales to similarly situated customers. As our products contain a significant element of proprietary technology and the solution offered differs substantially from that of competitors, it is difficult to obtain the reliable standalone competitive pricing necessary to establish TPE. ESP represents the best estimate of the price at which we would transact a sale if the product or service were sold on a standalone basis. We determine ESP for a product or service by using historical selling prices which reflect multiple factors including, but not limited to customer type, geography, market conditions, competitive landscape, gross margin objectives and pricing practices. The determination of ESP is made through consultation with and approval by management. We may modify or develop new pricing practices and strategies in the future. As these pricing strategies evolve changes may occur in ESP. The aforementioned factors may result in a different allocation of revenue to the deliverables in multiple element arrangements, which may change the pattern and timing of revenue recognition for these elements but will not change the total revenue recognized for the arrangement.
Inventory valuation.
We assess the valuation of our inventory on a periodic basis and make adjustments to the value for estimated excess and obsolete inventory based upon estimates about future demand and actual usage. Such estimates are difficult to make under most economic conditions. The excess balance determined by this analysis becomes the basis for our excess inventory charge. Our excess inventory review process includes analysis of sales forecasts, managing product rollovers and working with manufacturing to maximize recovery of excess inventory. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional write-downs may be required. If actual market conditions are more favorable than anticipated, inventory previously written down may be sold to customers, resulting in lower cost of sales and higher income from operations than expected in that period.
Share-based compensation.
We account for share-based awards in accordance with the authoritative guidance. Under the authoritative guidance, share-based compensation expense is primarily based on estimated grant date fair value and is recognized on a straight line basis. The fair value of share-based awards for employee stock option awards was estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. Shares granted under the Long-Term Performance Program ("LTPP") were valued using the Monte Carlo simulation model. The estimated fair value of restricted stock unit awards is determined based on the market price of Agilent's common stock on the date of grant adjusted for expected dividend yield. On January17, 2012, the company's Board of Directors approved the initiation of quarterly cash dividends to the company's shareholders. The fair value of all the awards granted prior to the declaration of quarterly cash dividend was measured based on an expected dividend yield of 0%. The Employee Stock Purchase Plan ("ESPP") allows eligible employees to purchase shares of our common stock at 85percent of the fair market value at the purchase date.
Both the Black-Scholes and Monte Carlo simulation fair value models require the use of highly subjective and complex assumptions, including the option's expected life and the price volatility of the underlying stock. The expected stock price volatility assumption was determined using the historical volatility of Agilent's stock option over the most recent historical period equivalent to the expected life. A 10percent increase in our estimated volatility from 39percent to 49 percent for our most recent employee stock option grant would generally increase the value of an award and the associated compensation cost by approximately 23percent if no other factors were changed.
For the grants awarded under the 2009 stock plan after November1, 2010, we increased the period available to retirement eligible employees to exercise their options from three years at retirement date to the full contractual term of ten years. In developing our estimated life of our employee stock options of 5.8years for 2011 to 2013, we considered the historical option exercise behavior of our executive employees who were granted the majority of the options in the annual grants, which we believe is representative of future behavior. See Note4, "Share-based Compensation," to the consolidated financial statements for more information.
The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of share-based awards represent our best estimates, but these estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of management judgment. Although we believe the assumptions and estimates we have made are reasonable and appropriate, changes in assumptions could materially impact our reported financial results.
Retirement and post-retirement benefit plan assumptions.
Retirement and post-retirement benefit plan costs are a significant cost of doing business. They represent obligations that will ultimately be settled sometime in the future and therefore are subject to estimation. Pension accounting is intended to reflect the recognition of future benefit costs over the employees' average expected future service to Agilent based on the terms of the plans and investment and funding decisions. To estimate the 33 Table of Contents impact of these future payments and our decisions concerning funding of these obligations, we are required to make assumptions using actuarial concepts within the framework of accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Two critical assumptions are the discount rate and the expected long-term return on plan assets. Other important assumptions include, expected future salary increases, expected future increases to benefit payments, expected retirement dates, employee turnover, retiree mortality rates, and portfolio composition. We evaluate these assumptions at least annually.
The discount rate is used to determine the present value of future benefit payments at the measurement date- October31 for both U.S. and non-U.S. plans. For 2013 and 2012, the U.S. discount rates were based on the results of matching expected plan benefit payments with cash flows from a hypothetically constructed bond portfolio and increased in 2013 from the previous year. For 2013 and 2012, the discount rate for non-U.S. plans was generally based on published rates for high quality corporate bonds and remained largely unchanged. If we changed our discount rate by 1 percent, the impact would be $8 million on U.S. pension expense and $23 million on non-U.S. pension expense. Lower discount rates increase present values and subsequent year pension expense; higher discount rates decrease present values and subsequent year pension expense.
The company uses alternate methods of amortization as allowed by the authoritative guidance which amortizes the actuarial gains and losses on a consistent basis for the years presented. For U.S. Plans, gains and losses are amortized over the average future working lifetime. For most Non-U.S. Plans and U.S. Post-Retirement Benefit Plans, gains and losses are amortized using a separate layer for each year's gains and losses. The expected long-term return on plan assets is estimated using current and expected asset allocations as well as historical and expected returns. Plan assets are valued at fair value. If we changed our estimated return on assets by 1percent, the impact would be $8million on U.S. pension expense and $17million on non-U.S. pension expense. For 2013, actual return on assets was above expectations which, along with contributions during the year, reduced next years pension cost as well as improved the funded status at year end. The net periodic pension and post-retirement benefit costs recorded in operations excluding curtailments and settlements were $58million in 2013, $52million in 2012, and $58million in 2011.
Goodwill and purchased intangible assets.
Agilent reviews goodwill for impairment annually during our fourth fiscal quarter and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. As defined in the authoritative guidance, a reporting unit is an operating segment, or one level below an operating segment. We aggregated components of an operating segment that have similar economic characteristics into our reporting units. At the time of an acquisition, we assign goodwill to the reporting unit that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. In the fourth quarter of 2013, we combined the life sciences and diagnostics and genomics segments to form the life sciences and diagnostics segment.  As a result, Agilent now has three segments, life sciences and diagnostics, chemical analysis, and electronic measurement segments.
In September 2011, the FASB approved changes to the goodwill impairment guidance which are intended to reduce the cost and complexity of the annual impairment test. The changes provide entities an option to perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether further impairment testing is necessary. The revised standard gives an entity the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether performing the current two-step test is necessary. If an entity believes, as a result of its qualitative assessment, that it is more-likely-than-not (i.e.> 50% chance) that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, the quantitative impairment test will be required. Otherwise, no further testing will be required.
The revised guidance includes examples of events and circumstances that might indicate that a reporting unit's fair value is less than its carrying amount. These include macro-economic conditions such as deterioration in the entity's operating environment or industry or market considerations; entity-specific events such as increasing costs, declining financial performance, or loss of key personnel; or other events such as an expectation that a reporting unit will be sold or a sustained decrease in the stock price on either an absolute basis or relative to peers.
The qualitative indicators replace those previously used to determine whether an interim goodwill impairment test is required.  Agilent opted to early adopt this guidance for the year ended October31, 2011.
If it is determined, as a result of the qualitative assessment, that it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, the provisions of authoritative guidance require that we perform a two-step impairment test on goodwill. In the first step, we compare the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. The second step (if necessary) measures the amount of impairment by applying fair-value-based tests to the individual assets and liabilities within each reporting unit.
In fiscal year 2013, we assessed goodwill impairment for our four reporting units which consisted of two segments: chemical analysis and electronic measurement; and two reporting units under the life sciences and diagnostics segment. The first of these two reporting units related to our life sciences business and the second related to our diagnostics business. We performed a qualitative test for goodwill impairment of the following three reporting units, as of September 30, 2013: the chemical analysis 34 Table of Contents segment, the electronic measurement segment, and the reporting unit relating to life sciences. Based on the results of our qualitative testing, we believe that it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of these reporting units are greater than their respective carrying values. We performed a quantitative test for goodwill impairment of the reporting unit related to our diagnostics business as of September 30, 2013. Based on the results of our quantitative testing, the fair value was significantly in excess of the carrying value. There was no impairment of goodwill during the years ended October 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011. Each quarter we review the events and circumstances to determine if goodwill impairment is indicated.
Purchased intangible assets consist primarily of acquired developed technologies, proprietary know-how, trademarks, and customer relationships and are amortized using the straight-line method over estimated useful lives ranging from 6months to 15years. In-process research and development (IPR&D) is initially capitalized at fair value as an intangible asset with an indefinite life and assessed for impairment thereafter. When the IPR&D project is complete, it is reclassified as an amortizable purchased intangible asset and is amortized over its estimated useful life. If an IPR&D project is abandoned, Agilent will record a charge for the value of the related intangible asset to Agilent's consolidated statement of operations in the period it is abandoned.
In July 2012, the FASB simplified the guidance for testing for impairment of indefinite-lived intangible assets other than goodwill.  The changes are intended to reduce compliance costs.  Agilent's indefinite-lived intangible assets are IPR&D intangible assets. The revised guidance allows a qualitative approach for testing indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment, similar to the impairment testing guidance for goodwill. It allows the option to first assess qualitative factors (events and circumstances) that could affect the significant inputs used in determining the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset. The qualitative factors assist in determining whether it is more likely than not (meaning a likelihood of more than 50 percent) that the indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired.  An organization may choose to bypass the qualitative assessment for any indefinite-lived intangible asset in any period and proceed directly to calculating its fair value.  The amendments are effective for annual and interim impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after September 15, 2012. Early adoption was permitted. Agilent adopted this guidance for the year ended October 31, 2012. Based on the quantitative test, we recorded an impairment of $1 million in 2013 and an impairment of $1 million in 2012, both relating to IPR&D projects that were abandoned. In all other instances we used the qualitative test and concluded that it was more likely than not that all other indefinite-lived intangible assets were not impaired. No impairments were recorded in 2011.
We continually monitor events and changes in circumstances that could indicate carrying amounts of long-lived assets, including purchased intangible assets, may not be recoverable. When such events or changes in circumstances occur, we assess the recoverability of long-lived assets by determining whether the carrying value of such assets will be recovered through undiscounted expected future cash flows. If the total of the undiscounted future cash flows is less than the carrying amount of those assets, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount over the fair value of the assets. In 2013, we recorded $1 million of impairments of other intangibles related to cancellation of an in-process research and development project. We also recorded $3 million of impairments related to other long-lived assets in 2013.  In 2012, we recorded $1 million of impairments of other intangibles related to the cancellation of an in-process research and development project. We also recorded $1 of impairments related to other long-lived assets in 2012. We performed impairment analyses of purchased intangible assets in 2011 and recorded $3million of impairment charges primarily related to a business where we ceased operations. We also recorded $8 million of impairments related to other long-lived assets in 2011.
Restructuring.
The main component of our restructuring plan is related to workforce reductions. Workforce reduction charges are accrued when payment of benefits becomes probable that the employees are entitled to the severance and the amounts can be estimated. If the amounts and timing of cash flows from restructuring activities are significantly different from what we have estimated, the actual amount of restructuring and other related charges could be materially different, either higher or lower, than those we have recorded.
Accounting for income taxes.
We must make certain estimates and judgments in determining income tax expense for financial statement purposes. These estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of tax credits, benefits and deductions, and in the calculation of certain tax assets and liabilities which arise from differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expense for tax and financial statement purposes, as well as interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions. Significant changes to these estimates may result in an increase or decrease to our tax provision in a subsequent period.
Significant management judgment is also required in determining whether deferred tax assets will be realized in full or in part. When it is more-likely-than-not that all or some portion of specific deferred tax assets such as net operating losses or foreign tax credit carryforwards will not be realized, a valuation allowance must be established for the amount of the deferred tax assets that cannot be realized. We consider all available positive and negative evidence on a jurisdiction-by-jurisdiction basis when assessing whether it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets are recoverable. We consider evidence such as our past operating results, the existence of losses in recent years and our forecast of future taxable income. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 we released the valuation allowance for the majority of our U.S. deferred tax assets. At October31, 2013, we continue to recognize 35 Table of Contents a valuation allowance for certain U.S. state and foreign deferred tax assets. We intend to maintain a valuation allowance in these jurisdictions until sufficient positive evidence exists to support its reversal.
We have not provided for all U.S. federal income and foreign withholding taxes on the undistributed earnings of some of our foreign subsidiaries because we intend to reinvest such earnings indefinitely. Should we decide to remit this income to the U.S. in a future period, our provision for income taxes will increase materially in that period.
The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax law and regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions. Although the guidance on the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes prescribes the use of a recognition and measurement model, the determination of whether an uncertain tax position has met those thresholds will continue to require significant judgment by management. In accordance with the guidance on the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, for all U.S. and other tax jurisdictions, we recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and interest will be due. The ultimate resolution of tax uncertainties may differ from what is currently estimated, which could result in a material impact on income tax expense. If our estimate of income tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would be required. If events occur and the payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. We include interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits within the provision for income taxes on the consolidated statements of operations.
As a part of our accounting for business combinations, intangible assets are recognized at fair values and goodwill is measured as the excess of consideration transferred over the net estimated fair values of assets acquired. Impairment charges associated with goodwill are generally not tax deductible and will result in an increased effective income tax rate in the period that any impairment is recorded. Amortization expenses associated with acquired intangible assets are generally not tax deductible and therefore deferred tax liabilities have been recorded for non-deductible amortization expenses as a part of the accounting for business combinations.
Adoption of New Pronouncements See Note2, "New Accounting Pronouncements," to the consolidated financial statements for a description of new accounting pronouncements.
Restructuring In the second quarter of 2013, we accrued for a targeted restructuring program that is expected to reduce Agilent's total headcount by approximately 450 regular employees, representing approximately 2 percent of our global workforce. The timing and scope of workforce reductions will vary based on local legal requirements. When completed, the restructuring program is expected to result in an approximately $50 million reduction in annual cost of sales and operating expenses. In addition we have been streamlining our manufacturing operations. As part of this action, we anticipate the reduction of approximately 250 positions to reduce our annual cost of sales.
For the year ended October 31, 2013 we accrued $53 million associated with the headcount reductions. Within the U.S, we have substantially completed these restructuring activities. Internationally, we expect to complete the majority of these restructuring activities by the end of the second half of fiscal 2014.  As of October 31, 2013, approximately 250 employees were terminated and $29 million was paid under the targeted restructuring program and 100 employees were terminated under the streamlining of manufacturing.
Foreign Currency Our revenues, costs and expenses, and monetary assets and liabilities are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our global operating and financing activities. We hedge revenues, expenses and balance sheet exposures that are not denominated in the functional currencies of our subsidiaries on a short term and anticipated basis. We do experience some fluctuations within individual lines of the consolidated statement of operations and balance sheet because our hedging program is not designed to offset the currency movements in each category of revenues, expenses, monetary assets and liabilities. Our hedging program is designed to hedge currency movements on a relatively short-term basis (up to a rolling twelve month period). Therefore, we are exposed to currency fluctuations over the longer term. To the extent that we are required to pay for all, or portions, of an acquisition price in foreign currencies, Agilent may enter into foreign exchange contracts to reduce the risk that currency movements will impact the U.S. dollar cost of the transaction.
36 Table of Contents Results from Operations Orders and Net Revenue Years Ended October31, 2013 over 2012 % Change 2012 over 2011 % Change 2013 2012 2011 (in millions) Orders $ 6,827 $ 6,877 $ 6,769 (1)% 2% Net revenue: Products $ 5,534 $ 5,659 $ 5,482 (2)% 3% Services and other $ 1,248 $ 1,199 $ 1,133 4% 6% Total net revenue $ 6,782 $ 6,858 $ 6,615 (1)% 4% Years Ended October31, 2013 over 2012 Ppts Change 2012 over 2011 Ppts Change 2013 2012 2011 % of total net revenue: Products 82 % 83 % 83 % (1) ppt  Services and other 18 % 17 % 17 % 1 ppt  Total 100 % 100 % 100 % In general, recorded orders represent firm purchase commitments from our customers with established terms and conditions for products and services that will be delivered within six months. Agilent's total orders in 2013 were $6,827 million, a decrease of 1 percent when compared to 2012. Foreign currency movements had an unfavorable impact of approximately 2 percentage points for the year ended October 31, 2013 when compared to 2012. The increase in orders associated with the Dako acquisition accounted for approximately 3 percentage points of total order growth for the year ended October31, 2013 when compared to 2012. Within our life sciences and diagnostics business orders increased 16 percent in 2013 compared to 2012 with 13 percentage points of order increase attributable to the Dako acquisition.  Chemical analysis orders increased 2 percent in 2013 when compared to 2012 and electronic measurement businesses orders decreased 13 percent when compared to 2012. Agilent's total orders in 2012 increased 2percent when compared to 2011. The increase in orders associated with the Dako acquisition accounted for 2 percentage points of order growth for the year ended October31, 2012 when compared to 2011. Within our life sciences and diagnostics business orders increased due to the Dako acquisition and were flat in chemical analysis and electronic measurement when compared to 2011.
Agilent's net revenue of $6,782million decreased 1percent when compared to 2012. Foreign currency movements for 2013 had an unfavorable impact of approximately 1percentage point compared to 2012. Revenue associated with the Dako acquisition accounted for approximately 4percentage points of the revenue growth for the year ended October31, 2013 when compared to 2012. Within our life sciences and diagnostics business revenue increased 16 percent in 2013 compared to 2012 with 13 percentage points of revenue increase attributable to the Dako acquisition. Excluding the effects of the Dako acquisition, there was growth in demand for life sciences and diagnostics products and services led by pharmaceutical and biotechnology and clinical markets. There was a decrease in demand  from the academic and government market for the year ended October31, 2013, when compared to the prior year. Within our chemical analysis business revenue grew 2 percent in 2013 compared with the prior year. There were modest increases in revenue from the food safety and petrochemical markets, but environmental and forensics markets were down when compared to the prior year. Within electronic measurement, total revenue decreased when compared to the prior year by 13 percent. General purposes markets decreased with aerospace and defense flat and computer and semi-conductor markets down when compared to 2012. Also within electronic measurement, the communications test business decreased for the year ended October31, 2013 when compared to the prior year with wireless R&D down moderately but wireless manufacturing showing a significant shortfall compared to the prior year mostly driven by the loss of business from a large customer with whom we could not agree on contractual terms. Agilent's total net revenue in 2012 increased 4percent when compared to 2011. The revenue increase associated with the Dako acquisition accounted for approximately 2percentage points of revenue increase for the year ended October31, 2012 when compared to 2011. Foreign currency movements for 2012 had an unfavorable impact of approximately 1 percentage point compared to 2011. Note21, "Segment Information" shows a reconciliation between segment revenue and net revenue.
37 Table of Contents Services and other revenue include revenue generated from servicing our installed base of products, warranty extensions and consulting. Services and other revenue increased 4 percent in 2013 as compared to 2012 .  The service and other revenue growth is higher than product revenue growth due to a portion of the revenue being driven more by the previously installed base than current period product sales. Services and other revenue increased 6 percent in 2012 as compared to 2011 .
Backlog Backlog represents the amount of revenue expected from orders that have already been booked, including orders for goods and services that have not been delivered to customers, orders invoiced but not yet recognized as revenue, and orders for goods that were shipped but not invoiced, awaiting acceptance by customers.
On October31, 2013 , our unfilled backlog for the electronic measurement business was approximately $760million, as compared to approximately $800million at October31, 2012 . On October31, 2013 , our unfilled backlog for the chemical analysis business was approximately $380million, as compared to approximately $360million at October31, 2012 . Within our life sciences and diagnostics business, our unfilled backlog was approximately $520million on October31, 2013 as compared to approximately $530million at October31, 2012 . We expect that a majority of the unfilled backlog for all three businesses will be delivered to customers within six months. On average, our unfilled backlog represents approximately three months' worth of revenues. We believe backlog on any particular date, while indicative of short-term revenue performance, is not necessarily a reliable indicator of medium or long-term revenue performance.
Costs and Expenses Years Ended October31, 2013 over 2012 Change 2012 over 2011 Change 2013 2012 2011 Gross margin on products 53.5 % 53.9 % 54.9 %  (1) ppt Gross margin on services and other 46.2 % 46.1 % 45.9 %   Total gross margin 52.1 % 52.6 % 53.3 %  (1) ppt Operating margin 14.0 % 16.3 % 16.2 % (2) ppts  (in millions) Research and development $ 704 $ 668 $ 649 5% 3% Selling, general and administrative $ 1,880 $ 1,817 $ 1,809 3% % In 2013, total gross margin was flat in comparison to 2012. Increased costs, in particular, intangible amortization from the acquisition of Dako, restructuring expenses and inventory charges were offset by a decrease in variable and incentive pay. In 2012, total gross margin decreased 1percentage point in comparison to 2011. The unfavorable impact of product mix, increased intangible amortization related to the Dako acquisition were offset by lower variable and incentive pay. Operating margins in 2013 decreased 2 percentage points compared to 2012 as a result of increased operating expenses associated with the Dako acquisition, including increased intangible asset amortization, restructuring costs, higher wages and increased inventory charges offset by lower variable and incentive pay. Operating margins in 2012 were flat when compared to 2011. This was the result of maintaining cost control through a decrease in variable and incentive pay while absorbing increases in expenditure from Dako and wage increases.
Gross inventory charges were $48 million in 2013 and $30 million in 2012 and 2011. Sales of previously written down inventory were $7 million in 2013 and $5 million in 2012 and 2011.
Our research and development efforts focus on potential new products and product improvements covering a wide variety of technologies, none of which is individually significant to our operations. We conduct five types of research and development: basic research, foundation technologies, communications, life sciences and measurement. Our research seeks to improve on various technical competencies in electronics, software, systems and solutions, life sciences and photonics. In each of these research fields, we conduct research that is focused on specific product development for release in the short-term as well as other research that is intended to be the foundation for future products over a longer time-horizon. Some of our product development research is designed to improve on the more than 20,000 products already in production, focus on major new product releases, and develop new product segments for the future. Due to the breadth of research and development projects across all of our businesses, there are a number of drivers of this expense. We remain committed to invest significantly in research and development and have focused our development efforts on key strategic opportunities to align our business with available markets and position ourselves to capture market share.
38 Table of Contents Research and development expenditures increased 5percent in 2013 compared to 2012. Increased expenditure was due to our continued investment in new product development and technologies, increased costs due to Dako, restructuring costs and wage increases, partially offset by lower variable and incentive pay. Research and development expenditures increased 3percent in 2012 compared to 2011. Increased expenditure was due to increased costs due to Dako offset by lower variable and incentive pay. We remain committed to invest approximately 10 percent of revenues in research and development and have focused our development efforts on key strategic opportunities in order to align our business with available markets and position ourselves to capture market share.
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 3 percent in 2013 compared to 2012. Increases were due to the acquisition of Dako, including amortization of intangible assets, wage increases and investments in sales channel coverage in emerging geographies and restructuring costs offset by decreases in variable and incentive pay. Selling, general and administrative expenses were flat in 2012 when compared to 2011.  Increases were due to the acquisition of Dako, wage increases and investments in sales channel coverage offset by decreases in variable and incentive pay and lower commissions.
Interest expense for the years ended October 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 was $107 million, $101 million and $86 million, respectively, and relates to the interest charged on our senior notes offset by the amortization of deferred gains recorded upon termination of interest rate swap contracts.
At October31, 2013, our headcount was approximately 20,600 compared to 20,500 in 2012 and 18,700 in 2011.  A significant proportion of the increase in headcount in 2012 compared with 2011 was due to the Dako acquisition.
Income Taxes Years Ended October31, 2013 2012 2011 (in millions) Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ 135 $ (110 ) $ 20 For 2013, the effective tax rate was 16 percent.  The 16 percent effective tax rate is lower than the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to the mix of earnings in non-U.S. jurisdictions taxed at lower statutory rates; in particular Singapore where we enjoy tax holidays. The effective tax rate also included a $12 million out-of-period adjustment to increase tax expense, recognized in the second quarter of 2013, associated with the write off of deferred tax assets related to foreign tax credits incorrectly claimed in prior years.
For 2012, the effective tax rate was a benefit of 11percent. The 11 percent effective tax rate benefit reflected tax on earnings in jurisdictions that had low effective tax rates and included a $280 million tax benefit due to the reversal of a valuation allowance for most U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets. Valuation allowances require an assessment of both positive and negative evidence when determining whether it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets are recoverable. Such assessment is required on a jurisdiction by jurisdiction basis. In the fourth quarter of 2012, management concluded that the valuation allowance for most of Agilent's U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets is no longer needed primarily due to the emergence from cumulative losses in recent years, the return to sustainable U.S. operating profits and the expectation of sustainable profitability in future periods. As of October 31, 2012, the cumulative positive evidence outweighed the negative evidence regarding the likelihood that most of the deferred tax asset for Agilent's U.S. consolidated income tax group will be realized. Accordingly, we recognized a non-recurring tax benefit of $280 million relating to the valuation allowance reversal. The effective tax rate also included a non-recurring tax expense of $88million relating to an increase in the overall residual U.S.tax expected to be imposed upon the repatriation of unremitted foreign earnings previously considered permanently reinvested. During the fourth quarter of 2012, we assessed the forecasted cash needs and overall financial position of our foreign subsidiaries and determined that a portion of previously permanently reinvested earnings would no longer be reinvested overseas. The effective tax rate was also reduced by a $68million tax benefit primarily associated with the recognition of previously unrecognized tax benefits and the reversal of the related interest accruals due to the reassessment of certain uncertain tax positions relating to foreign jurisdictions.
For 2011, the effective tax rate was 2percent. The 2percent effective tax rate reflects tax on earnings in jurisdictions that had low effective tax rates and includes a $97million net tax benefit primarily associated with a refund in Canada and the recognition of previously unrecognized tax benefits and the reversal of the related interest accruals due to the reassessment of certain uncertain tax positions. The income tax provision also included a $26million out of period adjustment to reduce the carrying value of certain U.K. deferred tax assets for which the majority was recorded in the quarter ended April30, 2011. The overstatement of these deferred tax assets resulted in an overstatement of the U.K. valuation allowance release in the fourth quarter of 2010. For the full 39 Table of Contents year, this out of period adjustment was substantially offset by other out of period adjustments. The net impact of all out of period adjustments on the effective tax rate was immaterial. Without considering interest and penalties, the effective rate reflected taxes in all jurisdictions except the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions in which income tax expense or benefit continued to be offset by adjustments to valuation allowances.
Agilent enjoys tax holidays in several different jurisdictions, most significantly in Singapore. The tax holidays provide lower rates of taxation on certain classes of income and require various thresholds of investments and employment or specific types of income in those jurisdictions. The tax holidays are due for renewal between 2015 and 2023. As a result of the incentives, the impact of the tax holidays decreased income taxes by $127 million, $122 million, and $127 million in 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively. The benefit of the tax holidays on net income per share (diluted) was approximately $0.37, $0.35, and $0.36 in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
In accordance with the guidance on the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, for all U.S. and other tax jurisdictions, we recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and interest will be due. If our estimate of income tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would be required. If events occur and the payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. We include interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits within the provision for income taxes on the consolidated statements of operations.
In the U.S., tax years remain open back to the year 2006 for federal income tax purposes and the year 2000 for significant states. Agilent's U.S. federal income tax returns for 2006 through 2007 are currently under audit by the IRS. During the three months ended July 31, 2012, the company received a Revenue Agents Report (RAR) for these years and filed a protest to dispute certain adjustments, the most significant of which pertains to the amount of a gain from the disposition of a business that was allocated to the U.S. for income tax purposes. There can be no assurance that the outcome of this dispute will not have a material effect on our operating results or financial condition. In other major jurisdictions where the company conducts business, the tax years generally remain open back to the year 2003. With these jurisdictions and the U.S., it is reasonably possible that there could be significant changes to our unrecognized tax benefits in the next twelve months due to either the expiration of a statute of limitation or a tax audit settlement. Given the number of years and numerous matters that remain subject to examination in various tax jurisdictions, management is unable to estimate the range of possible changes to the balance of our unrecognized tax benefits.
Segment Overview We formed a new operating segment in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2013. The new life sciences and diagnostics segment was formed by the combination of the life sciences business plus the diagnostics and genomics business. Following this reorganization, we have three business segments comprised of the life sciences and diagnostics business, the chemical analysis business and the electronic measurement business.  The historical segment financial information for the life sciences and diagnostics segment has been recast to conform to this new reporting structure in our financial statements.
Life Sciences and Diagnostics Our life sciences and diagnostics business provides application-focused solutions that include reagents, instruments, software, consumables, and services that enable customers to identify, quantify and analyze the physical and biological properties of substances and products, as well as enable customers in the clinical and life sciences research areas to interrogate samples at the molecular level. Key product categories include: liquid chromatography ("LC") systems, columns and components; liquid chromatography mass spectrometry ("LCMS") systems; laboratory software and informatics systems; laboratory automation and robotic systems; dissolution testing; nucleic acid solutions; Nuclear Magnetic Resonance, Magnetic Resonance Imaging, and X-Ray Diffraction systems; services and support for the aforementioned products; immunohistochemistry; In Situ Hybridization; Hematoxylin and Eosin staining; special staining, DNA mutation detection; genotyping; gene copy number determination; identification of gene rearrangements; DNA methylation profiling; gene expression profiling; next generation sequencing target enrichment; and automated gel electrophoresis-based sample analysis systems.We also collaborate with a number of major pharmaceutical companies to develop new potential pharmacodiagnostics, also called companion diagnostics, with the potential of identifying patients most likely to benefit from a specific targeted therapy.
40 Table of Contents Orders and Net Revenue Years Ended October31, 2013 over 2012 Change 2012 over 2011 Change 2013 2012 2011 (in millions) Orders $ 2,319 $ 1,993 $ 1,875 16% 6% Net revenue from products $ 1,868 $ 1,578 $ 1,424 18% 11% Net revenue from services and other 432 406 368 6% 10% Total net revenue $ 2,300 $ 1,984 $ 1,792 16% 11% Life sciences and diagnostics orders in 2013 grew 16 percent compared to 2012. Foreign currency movements had an unfavorable impact of 2 percentage point on order growth when compared to the prior year. Incremental orders associated with the Dako acquisition in 2013 accounted for 13 percentage points of the order growth. Excluding the impact of the Dako acquisition, order results were led by demand in the LC, genomics, services and consumables portfolios. Geographically, orders grew 16percent in the Americas, grew 27percent in Europe, declined 2percent in Japan, and grew 9 percent in other Asia Pacific during 2013 when compared to 2012. Life sciences and diagnostics orders in 2012 increased 6percent compared to 2011. Foreign currency movements had an unfavorable impact of 1 percentage point on order growth when compared to the prior year. Excluding the impact of the Dako acquisition, order growth was driven by strength in informatics, microfluidics, nucleic acid, and services. Budget constraints and cautious spending weighed on the results in 2012.
Life sciences and diagnostics net revenue in 2013 increased 16percent compared to 2012. Revenue associated with the Dako acquisition accounted for 17 percent of our life sciences and diagnostics business and 13 percentage points of the revenue growth in 2013. Foreign currency movements for 2013 had an unfavorable impact of 1percentage point compared to 2012. Excluding the impact of the Dako acquisition, revenue growth was led by strength in LC, consumables and services portfolios. Geographically, revenue grew 13percent in the Americas, grew 26percent in Europe, declined 2percent in Japan, and grew 12percent in other Asia Pacific during 2013 when compared to 2012. Though European countries continue to focus on addressing the financial downturn and continued austerity measures, Europe had the strongest performance with particular demand in the diagnostics and pharma markets. Life sciences and diagnostics revenue in 2012 increased 11percent compared to 2011. Foreign currency movements for 2012 had an unfavorable impact of 2percentage points compared to 2011. Excluding the impact of the Dako acquisition, revenue strength was led by LCMS, informatics, automation and services.
End market performance reflected slow growth across most markets in 2013. Pharmaceutical and biotech market was soft overall as budgets continued to be tightened. Customers are investing to upgrade technology, such as advanced LCMS applications, to stay ahead of the curve in biologic drugs yet still maintain an edge in chemical drugs, particularly in generic drugs and emerging markets. The academia and government market continued to see the dampening effects of the U.S. sequestration and weak macroeconomic environment in Europe, though we saw some signs of stabilization in Europe in the latter part of the 2013. The diagnostics market experienced solid growth in pathology, reagent partnerships and companion diagnostics and the clinical market remained robust during the year reflecting record volumes in the latter part of 2013 for our genomics products. Applied markets were flat as growth in food and petrochemical saw good demand from China and other emerging markets, but was largely offset by declines in environmental and forensics markets as tight government budgets continued to constrain demand in the U.S. and Europe.
Looking forward, we are optimistic about our growth opportunities in the life sciences and diagnostics markets as our broad portfolio of products and solutions are well suited to address customer needs. We continue to invest in expanding and improving our applications and solutions portfolio. We expect low spending levels to continue in academic and government markets given the U.S. budget sequestration and continued austerity in most developed countries, but we expect businesses such as consumables and services and the continued need to refresh aging instrumentation to partially offset this effect. We remain positive about our growth in our clinical and clinical research markets, as adoption of our SureSelect and HaloPlex sequencing target enrichment solutions continue. The fourth quarter of 2013 marked the commercial launch of the new Dako Omnis autostainer.  First installations of this platform have taken place, and we are seeing good acceptance of orders in both the U.S. and Europe.
41 Table of Contents Gross Margin and Operating Margin The following table shows the life sciences and diagnostics business' margins, expenses and income from operations for 2013 versus 2012 , and 2012 versus 2011 .
Years Ended October31, 2013 over 2012 Change 2012 over 2011 Change 2013 2012 2011 Total gross margin 54.3 % 53.3 % 52.0 % 1 ppt 1 ppt Operating margin 16.4 % 14.8 % 13.2 % 2 ppts 2 ppts (in millions) Research and development $ 228 $ 195 $ 174 17% 12% Selling, general and administrative $ 645 $ 567 $ 522 14% 9% Income from operations $ 377 $ 295 $ 237 28% 24% Gross margins in 2013 increased 1 percentage point compared to 2012. The increase in gross margins was mainly due to the impact of the Dako acquisition, along with favorable volume, lower infrastructure expenses, lower variable pay, partially offset by unfavorable product mix and unfavorable standard cost.  Gross margins increased 1percentage point in 2012 compared to 2011 mainly due to the impact of the Dako acquisition, favorable volume and lower material costs, which were offset by higher infrastructure costs and unfavorable product mix.
Research and development expenses increased 17percent in 2013 compared to 2012. The increase was due to the impact of the Dako acquisition. Research and development expenses increased 12percent in 2012 compared to 2011, mostly due to the impact of the Dako acquisition and investments in new product development.
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 14percent in 2013 compared to 2012. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 9percent in 2012 compared to 2011. The increase was due to the impact of the Dako acquisition in both periods.
Operating margins increased by 2percentage points in 2013 compared to 2012. The increases were mainly due to the impact of the Dako acquisition and favorable gross profit from higher revenue. Operating margins increased 2 percentage points in 2012 compared to 2011.The increase was due to the impact of the Dako acquisition, favorable gross profit from higher revenue outpacing operating expense growth.
Income from Operations Income from operations in 2013 increased by $82million or 28percent on a revenue increase of $316million, a 26 percent year-over-year operating margin incremental. Income from operations in 2012 increased $58 million or 24 percent on a revenue increase of $192 million. Operating margin incremental is measured by the increase in income from operations compared to the prior period divided by the increase in revenue compared to the prior period.
Chemical Analysis Our chemical analysis business provides application-focused solutions that include instruments, software, consumables, and services that enable customers to identify, quantify and analyze the physical and biological properties of substances and products.  Key product categories in chemical analysis include: gas chromatography (GC) systems, columns and components; gas chromatography mass spectrometry (GC-MS) systems; inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) instruments; atomic absorption (AA) instruments; inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometry (ICP-OES) instruments; molecular spectroscopy instruments; software and data systems; vacuum pumps and measurement technologies; services and support for our products.
42 Table of Contents Orders and Net Revenue Years Ended October31, 2013 over 2012 Change 2012 over 2011 Change 2013 2012 2011 (in millions) Orders $ 1,642 $ 1,604 $ 1,589 2% 1% Net revenue from products $ 1,232 $ 1,219 $ 1,194 1% 3% Net revenue from services and other 362 340 324 6% 5% Total net revenue $ 1,594 $ 1,559 $ 1,518 2% 3% Chemical analysis orders in 2013 increased 2 percent compared to 2012. Foreign currency movements for 2013 had an unfavorable impact of 2 percentage point compared to 2012. Order results were led by solid performance in services, consumables, and ICP-MS instruments. Strength in these areas was offset by declines in GC-MS systems and flat orders in vacuum pump products. Geographically, orders were flat in the Americas, increased 5 percent in Europe, declined 14 percent in Japan (includes unfavorable currency impact of 16 percentage points), and grew 6 percent in other Asia Pacific during 2013 when compared to 2012. In the Americas the overall government spending remains weak.  Total Asia Pacific orders reflected continued weakness in unfavorable currency impacts in Japan orders offset by continued growth in both China and South Asia Pacific and Korea. Chemical analysis orders in 2012 increased 1 percent compared to 2011 due to strength in services and consumables, along with GC-MS and ICP-MS instruments.
Chemical analysis net revenue in 2013 increased 2 percent compared to 2012. Foreign currency movements for 2013 had an unfavorable impact of 2 percentage point compared to 2012. Revenue growth was led by services and consumables. GC and GC-MS weaknesses were offset by strength in ICP-MS and AA and ICP-OES instruments. Geographically, revenue grew 3 percent in the Americas, grew 1 percent in Europe, declined 17 percent in Japan (including a 15 percentage point unfavorable currency impact), and grew 8 percent in other Asia Pacific. Brazil, China, and India in particular had strong revenue growth in 2013, each having double digit growth. Chemical analysis revenue grew 3 percent in 2012 compared to 2011, led by services and consumables, along with strength in ICP-MS Chemical analysis saw mixed growth in the core end markets.  The demand to export safe and high quality food in emerging markets remains strong, and their government funding continues to drive strength for purchases of GC and GC-MS instruments. Chemical and energy end markets saw modest increases in 2013 compared to 2012, driven primarily by stronger demand in China and a bright outlook for petrochemicals in North America. In forensics, the spread of designer drugs continues to drive the need for GC-MS systems, particularly in Europe. Environmental demand in mature markets is tempered by continued government budget constraints. In emerging economies, testing to ensure the quality and safety of drinking water is a factor in economic growth and has led to the demand for GC-MS and ICP-MS instruments. Other applied markets showed mid-single digit growth, with growth in pharmaceutical and bio tech markets being offset by a decline in academic and government markets.
Strength in 2013 and our fourth quarter results reflect a positive outlook for the chemical analysis core end markets. We will continue to invest in research and development, and seek to expand our position in developing countries and emerging markets. New instrument launches over the next twelve months, as well as continued market acceptance of our new products released in 2013, will help with our product differentiation and competitive position.
43 Table of Contents Gross Margin and Operating Margin The following table shows the chemical analysis business's margins, expenses and income from operations for 2013 versus 2012 , and 2012 versus 2011 .
Years Ended October31, 2013 over 2012 Change 2012 over 2011 Change 2013 2012 2011 Total gross margin 51.7 % 51.4 % 51.1 %   Operating margin 22.3 % 21.7 % 20.6 % 1 ppt 1 ppt (in millions) Research and development $ 94 $ 93 $ 92 2%  Selling, general and administrative $ 374 $ 371 $ 371 1%  Income from operations $ 355 $ 338 $ 313 5% 8% Gross margins in 2013 remained flat compared to 2012. Higher product discounts and unfavorable foreign currency movements were offset by favorable manufacturing overhead costs and favorable revenue volume. Gross margin also remained flat in 2012 compared to 2011, driven by higher product discounts offsetting favorable revenue volume and lower material costs.
Research and development expenses increased 2 percent in 2013 compared to 2012, driven mainly by our continued investment in instrument products. Research and development expenses remained flat in 2012 compared to 2011.
Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased 1 percent in 2013 compared to 2012 mainly due to higher infrastructure expenses and commissions partially offset by reduced discretionary expenses including marketing programs and travel. Selling, general, and administrative expenses remained flat in 2012 compared to 2011, primarily driven by investments in sales channel coverage with a focus on emerging markets being offset by lower commissions and discretionary spending Operating margins increased by 1 percentage point in 2013 compared to 2012. The increase was mainly due to favorable gross profit from higher revenue while holding expenses fairly flat. Operating margins increased 1 percentage point from 2012 compared to 2011, mainly due to favorable gross profit from higher revenue while holding expenses flat.
Income from Operations Income from operations in 2013 increased by $17 million or 5 percent on a revenue increase of $35 million, a 49 percent year-over-year operating margin incremental. Income from operations in 2012 increased by $25 million or 8 percent compared to 2011 on a revenue increase of $41 million, or 60 percent year-over-year operating margin incremental.
Electronic Measurement Our electronic measurement business provides electronic measurement instruments and systems, software design tools and related services that are used in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment and operation of electronics equipment, and microscopy products. Related services include start-up assistance, instrument productivity and application services and instrument calibration and repair. We also offer customization, consulting and optimization services throughout the customer's product lifecycle.
44 Table of Contents Orders and Net Revenue Years Ended October31, 2013 over 2012 Change 2012 over 2011 Change 2013 2012 2011 (in millions) Orders $ 2,866 $ 3,280 $ 3,305 (13)% (1)% Net revenue from products $ 2,434 $ 2,862 $ 2,875 (15)%  Net revenue from services and other 454 453 441  3% Total net revenue $ 2,888 $ 3,315 $ 3,316 (13)%  Electronic measurement orders declined 13 percent in 2013 compared to 2012. Foreign currency movements had an unfavorable impact of 2 percentage points on the year-over-year compare. Orders were lower for all market segments, including aerospace and defense; industrial, computer, and semiconductor test; and communications test, which decreased year-over-year primarily due to lower wireless manufacturing demand relating to the loss of business from a large customer with whom we could not agree on contractual terms.  On a geographic basis, orders declined 20 percent in the Americas, 12 percent in Japan, 7 percent in Asia Pacific excluding Japan, and 4 percent in Europe.  The decline in orders in the Americas was driven by weak communications test and soft aerospace and defense demand.  Japan orders were lower due to the unfavorable impact of currency movements, improving by 1 percent year-over-year in local currency.  Electronic measurement orders declined 1 percent in 2012 compared to 2011; weak industrial and slightly lower aerospace and defense orders were mostly offset by growth in computer and semiconductor and communications test business.
Electronic measurement revenue declined 13 percent in 2013 compared to 2012 primarily on lower wireless manufacturing and industrial, computer and semiconductor test demand.  The unfavorable impact of foreign currency movements contributed to 2 percentage points of the year-over-year decline.  Revenue from the Americas decreased 19 percent on significantly lower wireless manufacturing demand and soft general purpose test business.  Japan revenue was 14 percent lower year-over-year but declined only 3 percent in local currency.  Asia Pacific excluding Japan decreased 7 percent, and Europe declined 6 percent when compared to last year.  Revenue from products was 15 percent lower compared to 2012 while service related revenue was flat.  Electronic measurement revenue was flat in 2012 compared to 2011 on flat demand in both general purpose and communications test.  Within communications test, strong wireless manufacturing test revenue was offset by lower wireless R&D and broadband communications test business.
General purpose test revenue, representing approximately 66 percent of electronic measurement business, declined year-over-year on weak industrial, computer, and semiconductor test demand.  Our aerospace and defense business was flat year-over-year on lower demand in the Americas offset by stronger spending in Europe.  Semiconductor test revenue declined on moderating investments in new process technology and weak manufacturing demand.  The shift from personal computers to lower priced, more highly integrated tablets has resulted in a reduction in test equipment demand.  Uncertain global economic conditions contributed to lower industrial test business.  In 2012, general purpose test represented approximately 63 percent of electronic measurement revenue with slight growth in computers and semiconductor business, flat industrial test demand, and a slight decline in aerospace and defense compared to 2011.
Communications test revenue, representing approximately 34 percent of total electronic measurement, declined year-over-year primarily due to significantly lower wireless manufacturing demand driven by the loss of business from a large customer with whom we could not agree on contractual terms.  Wireless R&D spending remained soft reflecting a cautious spending environment though long-term industry fundamentals remain intact, with continued interest in high data rate applications such as long-term evolution (LTE).  In 2012, communications test represented approximately 37 percent of total electronic measurement revenue; strong wireless manufacturing test demand was offset by lower wireless R&D and broadband communications business.
The outlook across market segments remains mixed.  There continues to be downward pressure on aerospace and defense demand with near-term uncertainty relating to the budget for the United States.  We expect to see improvement in semiconductor test considering the order strength in the last quarter of fiscal year 2013.  Communications test is expected to improve in the near term on investment in wireless R&D for next generation formats and more stable wireless manufacturing demand.  Longer term growth drivers such as mobility and transformational initiatives, including modular and hand-held instrumentation, support our ongoing investments.
45 Table of Contents Gross Margin and Operating Margin The following table shows the electronic measurement business's margins, expenses and income from operations for 2013 versus 2012 and 2012 versus 2011 .
Years Ended October31, 2013 over 2012 Change 2012 over 2011 Change 2013 2012 2011 Total gross margin 56.9 % 56.9 % 58.4 %  (2) ppts Operating margin 18.9 % 22.7 % 22.9 % (4) ppts  (in millions) Research and development $ 365 $ 375 $ 379 (3)% (1)% Selling, general and administrative $ 733 $ 761 $ 798 (4)% (5)% Income from operations $ 544 $ 751 $ 760 (28)% (1)% Gross margins were flat in 2013 compared to 2012 on lower revenue.  On a volume-adjusted basis, gross margins were higher year-over-year primarily due to the lower proportion of wireless manufacturing business.  A decline in variable and incentive pay and reduced infrastructure spending were offset by higher inventory charges and wage increases.  In 2012, gross margins declined 2 percentage points compared to 2011 on flat revenue primarily driven by the unfavorable impact of a higher proportion of lower gross margin wireless manufacturing business.
Research and development expenses declined 3percent in 2013 compared to 2012.  Reductions in development spending, variable and incentive pay, and infrastructure related expenses, and the favorable impact of currency movements were partially offset by investments in acquisitions and wage increases.  Research and development expenses declined 1percent in 2012 compared to 2011 on lower variable and incentive pay and infrastructure costs partially offset by incremental spending on acquisitions and wage increases.
Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 4 percent in 2013 compared to 2012.  Reductions in discretionary spending, lower variable and incentive pay, and the favorable impact of currency movements were partially offset by wage increases.  Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 5 percent in 2012 compared to 2011 on lower variable and incentive pay, infrastructure costs and commissions partially offset by wage increases.
Operating margins declined by 4 percentage points in 2013 compared to 2012 on lower revenue partially offset by reduced operating expenses.  Operating margins were approximately the same in 2012 compared to 2011 on flat revenue with the net impact of lower gross margins mostly offset by reductions in operating expenses.
Income from Operations Income from operations in 2013 declined by $207 million or 28percent compared to 2012 on a revenue decrease of $427million, a 48percent year-over-year operating margin decrement, reflecting the net impact of lower revenue partially offset by expense reductions.  Income from operations in 2012 decreased by $9million or 1percent compared to 2011 on flat revenue, with the impact of lower gross margins mostly offset by reductions in expenses.
Financial Condition Liquidity and Capital Resources Our financial position as of October31, 2013 consisted of cash and cash equivalents of $2,675million as compared to $2,351million as of October31, 2012.
As of October31, 2013, approximately $2,552million of our cash and cash equivalents is held outside of the U.S. in our foreign subsidiaries. Most of the amounts held outside of the U.S. could be repatriated to the U.S. but, under current law, would be subject to U.S. federal and state income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. Agilent has accrued for U.S. federal and state tax liabilities on the earnings of its foreign subsidiaries except when the earnings are considered indefinitely reinvested outside of the U.S. Repatriation could result in additional material U.S. federal and state income tax payments in future years. We utilize a variety of funding strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed.
46 Table of Contents On June 21, 2012, we completed the acquisition of Dako A/S through the acquisition of 100% of the share capital of Dako A/S, a limited liability company incorporated under the laws of Denmark (Dako), under the share purchase agreement, dated May 16, 2012. As a result of the acquisition, Dako has become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Agilent. The consideration paid was approximately $2,143 million, $1,400 million was paid directly to the seller and $743 million was paid to satisfy the outstanding debt of Dako.  Agilent funded the acquisition using existing cash. The acquisition has been accounted for in accordance with the authoritative accounting guidance and the results of Dako are included in Agilent's consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition.
We believe our cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from operations, and ability to access capital markets and credit lines will satisfy, for the foreseeable future, our liquidity requirements, both globally and domestically, including the following: working capital needs, capital expenditures, business acquisitions, stock repurchases, cash dividends, contractual obligations, commitments, principal and interest payments on debt, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations.
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $1,152million in 2013 as compared to $1,228million provided in 2012 and $1,260 million provided in 2011. We received $65million in interest rate swap proceeds and $61million in respect of a tax sharing settlement with Hewlett Packard Company during the year ended October31, 2011. We paid approximately net taxes of $110 million in 2013, as compared to net $86million in taxes in 2012 and net $22million in 2011.
In 2013, accounts receivable provided cash of $14million, provided cash of $19million in 2012 and provided cash of $11 million in 2011. Days' sales outstanding were 47days in 2013, 47days in 2012 and 45 days in 2011. Accounts payable used cash of $27million in 2013, used cash of $31million in 2012 and used cash of $35 million in 2011. Cash used in inventory was $100million in 2013, $52million in 2012 and $208 million in 2011. Inventory days on-hand increased to 118 days in 2013 compared to 108days in 2012 and 100 days in 2011. The increase in days on-hand was due to the reduced shipment volume within our electronic measurement business.
We contributed $30million, $30million and $33 million to our U.S. defined benefit plans in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. We contributed $89million, $54million and $59 million to our non-U.S. defined benefit plans in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. We contributed $1 million to our U.S. post-retirement benefit plans in 2013 and did not contribute to our U.S. post-retirement benefit plans in 2012 or 2011. Our non-U.S. defined benefit plans are generally funded ratably throughout the year. Total contributions in 2013 were $120 million or 43 percent more than 2012. Total contributions in 2012 were $84million or 9 percent less than 2011. Our annual contributions are highly dependent on the relative performance of our assets versus our projected liabilities, among other factors. We expect to contribute approximately $101million to our U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit plans and $2 million to our U.S. post-retirement benefit plans during 2014.
Net Cash Provided by/Used in Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities in 2013 was $248million as compared to net cash used of $2,366million in 2012 primarily due to the acquisition of Dako. In 2011, net cash provided by investing activities was $1,294 million.
Investments in property, plant and equipment were $195million in 2013, $194million in 2012 and $188 million in 2011. Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment were $2 million in 2013, zero in 2012 and $18million in 2011. In 2013, we invested $21 million in acquisitions of businesses and intangible assets compared to $2,257 million in 2012 and $98million in 2011. Proceeds from the sale of investment securities in 2013 were $12million, $5million in 2012 and $16 million in 2011. The amounts of and changes in restricted cash were not material for the fiscal year ended 2012. In 2011 restricted cash decreased $1,545 million mostly due to the reclassification of restricted cash to cash and cash equivalents following the settlement of the World Trade repurchase obligation.
Net Cash Provided by/Used in Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities in 2013 was $554million compared to $37 million in 2012 and $1,693million in 2011, respectively.
Treasury stock repurchases On November19, 2009 our board of directors approved a share-repurchase program to reduce or eliminate dilution of basic outstanding shares in connection with issuances of stock under the company's equity incentive plans (the "2009 repurchase 47 Table of Contents program"). The 2009 repurchase program did not require the company to acquire a specific number of shares and could be suspended or discontinued at any time. There was no fixed termination date for the 2009 repurchase program.
On January16, 2013 , our board of directors terminated the 2009 repurchase program and approved a new share-repurchase program (the "2013 repurchase program"). The 2013 repurchase program authorized the use of up to $500 million to repurchase shares of the company's common stock in open market transactions, inclusive of any amounts repurchased since November 1, 2012.  On May 14, 2013 we announced that our board of directors authorized an increase of $500 million to the 2013 repurchase program bringing the cumulative authorization to $1 billion . Unless terminated earlier by the board of directors, the 2013 repurchase program is designed to cover purchases until the end of the calendar year and any unused portion may be used in the calendar year 2014. The 2013 repurchase program does not require the company to acquire a specific number of shares and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. As of October 31, 2013, the remaining amount to be repurchased under the 2013 program is $100 million. We repurchased the remaining $100 million worth of shares under the 2013 repurchase program in November 2013.
For the year ended October 31, 2013, we repurchased 20 million shares for $900 million.  All such shares and related costs are held as treasury stock and accounted for using the cost method. For the year ended October31, 2012 we repurchased approximately 5million shares for $172million. For the year ended October31, 2011 we repurchased 12million shares for $497million.
On November 22, 2013 we announced that our board of directors has authorized a new share repurchase program effective upon the conclusion of the company's existing $1 billion repurchase program. The new program is designed to reduce or eliminate dilution resulting from issuance of stock under the company's employee equity incentive programs to maintain a weighted average share count of approximately 335 million diluted shares.
Dividends During the year ended October31, 2013, cash dividends of $0.46 per share, or $156 million were declared and paid on the company's outstanding common stock. During the year ended October31, 2012, cash dividends of $0.30 per share, or $104 million were declared and paid on the company's outstanding common stock. The timing and amounts of any future dividends are subject to determination and approval by our board of directors.
On November 22, 2013 we announced that our board of directors has authorized a 10 percent increase in the quarterly dividend to $0.132 per share. The dividend was declared on November 22, 2013 and will be paid on January 22, 2014 to all stockholders of record as of close of business on December 31, 2013.
Credit Facility On October20, 2011, we entered into a five-year credit agreement, which provides for a $400million unsecured credit facility that will expire on October20, 2016. The company may use amounts borrowed under the facility for general corporate purposes. As of October31, 2013 the company has no borrowings outstanding under the facility. We were in compliance with the covenants for the credit facilities during the year ended October31, 2013.
As a result of the Dako acquisition, we have a credit facility in Danish Krone equivalent of $9 million with a Danish financial institution.  As of October 31, 2013 the company had no borrowings outstanding under the facility.
Short-term debt On July13, 2010, the company issued an aggregate principal amount of $250 million in senior notes ("2013 senior notes").  The 2013 senior notes matured on July15, 2013 and were paid in full.
On September 9, 2009, the company issued an aggregate principal amount of $250 million in senior notes ("2012 senior notes").  The 2012 senior notes matured on September 14, 2012 and were paid in full.
Long-term debt In September 2009, the company issued an aggregate principal amount of $500 million in senior notes ("2015 senior notes"). The 2015 senior notes were issued at 99.69% of their principal amount. The notes will mature on September14, 2015, and bear interest at a fixed rate of 5.50% per annum. The interest is payable semi-annually on March14thand September14thof each year, payments commenced on March14, 2010.
48 Table of Contents On June6, 2011, we terminated our interest rate swap contracts related to our 2015 senior notes that represented the notional amount of $500 million. The asset value, including interest receivable, upon termination for these contracts was approximately $31 million and the amount to be amortized at October31, 2013 was $12 million. The gain is being deferred and amortized to interest expense over the remaining life of the 2015 senior notes.
In October 2007, the company issued an aggregate principal amount of $600 million in senior notes ("2017 senior notes"). The 2017 senior notes were issued at 99.60% of their principal amount. The notes will mature on November1, 2017, and bear interest at a fixed rate of 6.50% per annum. The interest is payable semi-annually on May1stand November1stof each year and payments commenced on May1, 2008.
On November25, 2008, we terminated two interest rate swap contracts associated with our 2017 senior notes that represented the notional amount of $400 million. The asset value, including interest receivable, upon termination was approximately $43 million and the amount to be amortized at October31, 2013 was $22 million. The gain is being deferred and amortized to interest expense over the remaining life of the 2017 senior notes.
In July 2010, the company issued an aggregate principal amount of $500 million in senior notes ("2020 senior notes"). The 2020 senior notes were issued at 99.54% of their principal amount. The notes will mature on July 15, 2020, and bear interest at a fixed rate of 5.00% per annum. The interest is payable semi-annually on January 15th and July 15th of each year, payments commenced on January 15, 2011.
On August 9, 2011, we terminated our interest rate swap contracts related to our 2020 senior notes that represented the notional amount of $500 million. The asset value, including interest receivable, upon termination for these contracts was approximately $34 million and the amount to be amortized at October 31, 2012 was $26 million. The gain is being deferred and amortized to interest expense over the remaining life of the 2020 senior notes.
In September 2012, the company issued an aggregate principal amount of $400 million in senior notes ("2022 senior notes"). The senior notes were issued at 99.80% of their principal amount. The notes will mature on October 1, 2022, and bear interest at a fixed rate of 3.20% per annum. The interest is payable semi-annually on April 1st and October 1st of each year, payments commenced on April 1, 2013. We used part of the proceeds from the issuance of the 2022 senior notes to pay the 2012 senior notes.
In June 2013, the company issued aggregate principal amount of $600 million in senior notes ("2023 senior notes"). The 2023 senior notes were issued at 99.544% of their principal amount. The notes will mature on July 15, 2023 and bear interest at a fixed rate of 3.875% per annum. Interest is payable semi annually on January 15th and July 15th of each year and payments will commence January 15, 2014.
All notes issued are unsecured and rank equally in right of payment with all of Agilent's other senior unsecured indebtedness. The company incurred issuance costs of $5 million each in connection with the 2017 and 2023 senior notes and incurred $3 million each in connection with the 2015, 2020 and 2022 senior notes. These costs were capitalized in other assets on the consolidated balance sheet and the costs are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the senior notes.
As of October 31, 2013, and as a result of the Dako acquisition, we have a mortgage debt, secured on buildings in Denmark, in Danish Krone equivalent of $46 million aggregate principal outstanding with a Danish financial institution. The loan has a variable interest rate based on 3 months Copenhagen Interbank Rate ("Cibor") and will mature on September 30, 2027. Interest payments are made in March, June, September and December of each year.
Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Other We have contractual commitments for non-cancelable operating leases. See Note17 "Commitments and Contingencies", to our consolidated financial statements for further information on our non-cancelable operating leases.
Our liquidity is affected by many factors, some of which are based on normal ongoing operations of our business and some of which arise from fluctuations related to global economics and markets. Our cash balances are generated and held in many locations throughout the world. Local government regulations may restrict our ability to move cash balances to meet cash needs under certain circumstances. We do not currently expect such regulations and restrictions to impact our ability to pay vendors and conduct operations throughout our global organization.
Contractual Commitments 49 Table of Contents Our cash flows from operations are dependent on a number of factors, including fluctuations in our operating results, accounts receivable collections, inventory management, and the timing of tax and other payments. As a result, the impact of contractual obligations on our liquidity and capital resources in future periods should be analyzed in conjunction with such factors.
The following table summarizes our total contractual obligations at October31, 2013 for operations and excludes amounts recorded in our consolidated balance sheet (in millions): Less than one year One to three years Three to five years More than five years Operating leases $ 56 $ 78 $ 33 $ 6 Commitments to contract manufacturers and suppliers 727 21   Other purchase commitments 70    Retirement plans 103    Total $ 956 $ 99 $ 33 $ 6 Operating leases.
Commitments under operating leases relate primarily to leasehold property, see Note17, "Commitments and Contingencies".
Commitments to contract manufacturers and suppliers.
We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, we issue purchase orders with estimates of our requirements several months ahead of the delivery dates. However, our agreements with these suppliers usually provide us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed. Typically purchase orders outstanding with delivery dates within 30days are non-cancelable. Therefore, only approximately 55percent of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements are firm, non-cancelable, and unconditional commitments. We expect to fulfill most of our purchase commitments for inventory within one year.
In addition to the above mentioned commitments to contract manufacturers and suppliers, we record a liability for firm, non-cancelable and unconditional purchase commitments for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with our policy relating to excess inventory. As of October31, 2013, the liability for our firm, non-cancelable and unconditional purchase commitments was $5million, compared to $5 million as of October31, 2012 and 2011. These amounts are included in other accrued liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet.
Other purchase commitments.
We have categorized "other purchase commitments" related to contracts with professional services suppliers. Typically we can cancel these contracts within 90days without penalties. For those contracts that are not cancelable within 90days without penalties, we are disclosing the amounts we are obligated to pay to a supplier under each contract in that period before such contract can be cancelled. Our contractual obligations with these suppliers under "other purchase commitments" were approximately $70 million within the next year.
Retirement Plans.
Commitments under the retirement plans relate to expected contributions to be made to our U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit plans and to our post-retirement medical plans for the next year only. Contributions after next year are impractical to estimate.
We had no material off-balance sheet arrangements as of October31, 2013 or October31, 2012.
On Balance Sheet Arrangements The following table summarizes our total contractual obligations recorded in our consolidated balance sheet pertaining to our long-term debt as of October31, 2013 (in millions): Less than one year One to three years Three to five years More than five years Senior notes $  $ 1,100 $  $ 1,500 Other debt    46 Total $  $ 1,100 $  $ 1,546 We have contractual obligations for interest payments on the above debts. Interest rates and payment dates are detailed in 50 Table of Contents "Long-term debt".
Other long-term liabilities include $341million and $320million of liabilities for uncertain tax positions as of October31, 2013 and October31, 2012, respectively. We are unable to accurately predict when these amounts will be realized or released. However, it is reasonably possible that there could be significant changes to our unrecognized tax benefits in the next twelve months due to either the expiration of a statute of limitations or a tax audit settlement.
51 Table of Contents Item7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our subsidiaries. We hedge future cash flows denominated in currencies other than the functional currency using sales forecasts up to twelve months in advance. Our exposure to exchange rate risks is managed on an enterprise-wide basis. This strategy utilizes derivative financial instruments, including option and forward contracts, to hedge certain foreign currency exposures with the intent of offsetting gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures with gains and losses on the derivative contracts hedging them. We do not currently and do not intend to utilize derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes.
Our operations generate non-functional currency cash flows such as revenues, third party vendor payments and inter-company payments. In anticipation of these foreign currency cash flows and in view of volatility of the currency market, we enter into such foreign exchange contracts as are described above to manage our currency risk. Approximately 63percent of our revenues in 2013 , 63percent of our revenues in 2012 and 64percent of our revenues in 2011 were generated in U.S. dollars.
We performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10percent adverse movement in foreign exchange rates to the hedging contracts and the underlying exposures described above. As of October31, 2013 and 2012, the analysis indicated that these hypothetical market movements would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
We are also exposed to interest rate risk due to the mismatch between the interest expense we pay on our loans at fixed rates and the variable rates of interest we receive from cash, cash equivalents and other short-term investments. We have issued long-term debt in U.S. dollars or foreign currencies at fixed interest rates based on the market conditions at the time of financing. We believe that the fair value of our fixed rate debt changes when the underlying market rates of interest change, and we may use interest rate swaps to modify such market risk.
We performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10percent adverse movement in interest rates relating to the underlying fair value of our fixed rate debt. As of October31, 2013 and 2012, the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10percent adverse movement in interest rates would result in an immaterial impact to the fair value of our fixed interest rate debt.
52 Table of Contents Item8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Index to Consolidated Financial Statements Page Consolidated Financial Statements: Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 54 Consolidated Statement of Operations for each of the three years in the period ended October31, 201 3 55 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the three years in the period ended October 31, 2013 56 Consolidated Balance Sheet at October31, 2013 and 2012 57 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended October31, 201 3 58 Consolidated Statement of Equity for each of the three years in the period ended October31, 201 3 59 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 60 Quarterly Summary (unaudited) 105 53 Table of Contents REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of Agilent Technologies, Inc.: In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the index appearing under Item 8 present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Agilent Technologies, Inc. and its subsidiaries at October 31, 2013 and October 31, 2012, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended October 31, 2013 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in the index appearing under item 15(a)(2) presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.  Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of October 31, 2013, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (1992) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).  The Company's management is responsible for these financial statements and financial statement schedule, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A.  Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements, on the financial statement schedule, and on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits.  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.  Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.  Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i)pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii)provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii)provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
/s/ PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP San Jose, California December 19, 2013 54 Table of Contents AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES,INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS Years Ended October 31, 2013 2012 2011 (in millions, except per share data) Net revenue: Products $ 5,534 $ 5,659 $ 5,482 Services and other 1,248 1,199 1,133 Total net revenue 6,782 6,858 6,615 Costs and expenses: Cost of products 2,576 2,608 2,473 Cost of services and other 671 646 613 Total costs 3,247 3,254 3,086 Research and development 704 668 649 Selling, general and administrative 1,880 1,817 1,809 Total costs and expenses 5,831 5,739 5,544 Income from operations 951 1,119 1,071 Interest income 7 9 14 Interest expense (107 ) (101 ) (86 ) Other income (expense), net 8 16 33 Income before taxes 859 1,043 1,032 Provision (benefit) for income taxes 135 (110 ) 20 Net income $ 724 $ 1,153 $ 1,012 Net income per share: Basic $ 2.12 $ 3.31 $ 2.92 Diluted $ 2.10 $ 3.27 $ 2.85 Weighted average shares used in computing net income per share: Basic 341 348 347 Diluted 345 353 355 Cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.46 $ 0.30 $  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
55 Table of Contents AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES,INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (in millions) Years  Ended October 31, 2013 2012 2011 Net income $ 724 $ 1,153 $ 1,012 Other comprehensive income (loss): Change in unrealized gain on investments, net of tax expense (benefit) of $2, $(8) and $0 7 6 (4 ) Gain on derivative instruments, net of tax expense of $2, $3 and $0 8 7  Amounts reclassified into earnings related to derivative instruments, net of tax benefit of $(3), $(2) and $(2) (10 ) (6 ) 3 Foreign currency translation 1 (28 ) 94 Net defined benefit pension cost and post retirement plan costs: Change in actuarial net loss, net of tax expense (benefit) of $114, $(61), and $(3) 228 (175 ) (38 ) Change in net prior service benefit, net of tax benefit of $(16), $(17), and $0 (32 ) (31 ) 149 Other comprehensive income (loss) 202 (227 ) 204 Total comprehensive income $ 926 $ 926 $ 1,216 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
56 Table of Contents AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES,INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET October31, 2013 2012 (in millions, except par value and share data) ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,675 $ 2,351 Accounts receivable, net 899 923 Inventory 1,066 1,014 Other current assets 343 341 Total current assets 4,983 4,629 Property, plant and equipment, net 1,134 1,164 Goodwill 3,047 3,025 Other intangible assets, net 916 1,086 Long-term investments 139 109 Other assets 467 523 Total assets $ 10,686 $ 10,536 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ 432 $ 461 Employee compensation and benefits 401 387 Deferred revenue 439 420 Short-term debt  250 Other accrued liabilities 330 375 Total current liabilities 1,602 1,893 Long-term debt 2,699 2,112 Retirement and post-retirement benefits 294 554 Other long-term liabilities 802 792 Total liabilities 5,397 5,351 Commitments and contingencies (Note17) Total equity: Stockholders' equity: Preferred stock; $0.01 par value; 125million shares authorized; none issued and outstanding   Common stock; $0.01 par value; 2billion shares authorized; 602million shares at October31, 2013 and 595million shares at October31, 2012 issued 6 6 Treasury stock at cost; 269million shares at October31, 2013 and 249million shares at October31, 2012 (9,607 ) (8,707 ) Additional paid-in-capital 8,723 8,489 Retained earnings 6,073 5,505 Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) 91 (111 ) Total stockholders' equity 5,286 5,182 Non-controlling interest 3 3 Total equity 5,289 5,185 Total liabilities and equity $ 10,686 $ 10,536 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
57 Table of Contents AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES,INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Years Ended October 31, 2013 2012 2011 (in millions) Cash flows from operating activities: Net income $ 724 $ 1,153 $ 1,012 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities: Depreciation and amortization 372 301 253 Share-based compensation 85 74 72 Excess tax benefit from share-based plans (2 )   Deferred taxes 31 (158 ) 38 Excess and obsolete inventory and inventory related charges 48 30 30 Non-cash restructuring and asset impairment charges 3 1 10 Net gain on sale of investments (1 ) (4 ) (6 ) Net (gain) loss on sale of assets and divestitures 3 2 2 Other 3 5 8 Changes in assets and liabilities: Accounts receivable, net 14 19 11 Inventory (100 ) (52 ) (208 ) Accounts payable (27 ) (31 ) (35 ) Employee compensation and benefits 16 (54 ) 24 Interest rate swap proceeds   65 Other assets and liabilities (17 ) (58 ) (16 ) Net cash provided by operating activities 1,152 1,228 1,260 Cash flows from investing activities: Investments in property, plant and equipment (195 ) (194 ) (188 ) Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment 2  18 Proceeds from lease receivable  80  Proceeds from the sale of investment securities 12 5 16 Proceeds from divestitures   1 Payment to acquire equity method investment (21 )   Purchase of other investments (25 )   Change in restricted cash, cash equivalents and investments, net   1,545 Acquisitions of businesses and intangible assets, net of cash acquired (21 ) (2,257 ) (98 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (248 ) (2,366 ) 1,294 Cash flows from financing activities: Issuance of common stock under employee stock plans 161 100 304 Treasury stock repurchases (900 ) (172 ) (497 ) Payment of dividends (156 ) (104 )  Issuance of senior notes 597 399  Debt issuance costs (5 ) (3 )  Repayment of senior notes (250 ) (250 )  Purchase of non-controlling interest (3 ) (6 )  Repayment of debts and credit facility  (1 ) (1,500 ) Excess tax benefit from share-based plans 2   Net cash used in financing activities (554 ) (37 ) (1,693 ) Effect of exchange rate movements (26 ) (1 ) 17 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 324 (1,176 ) 878 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 2,351 3,527 2,649 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year $ 2,675 $ 2,351 $ 3,527 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
58 Table of Contents AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES,INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EQUITY Common Stock Treasury Stock Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss) Number of Shares Par Value Additional Paid-in Capital Number of Shares Treasury Stock at Cost Retained Earnings Total Stockholders' Equity Non- Controlling Interests Total Equity (in millions, except number of shares in thousands) Balance as of October 31, 2010 578,827 $ 6 $ 7,904 (232,683 ) $ (8,038 ) $ 3,444 $ (88 ) $ 3,228 $ 8 $ 3,236 Components of comprehensive income, net of tax: Net income      1,012  1,012  1,012 Other comprehensive income       204 204  204 Total comprehensive income 1,216 1,216 Share-based awards issued 11,841  289     289  289 Repurchase of common stock    (11,603 ) (497 )   (497 )  (497 ) Share-based compensation   72     72  72 Balance as of October 31, 2011 590,668 $ 6 $ 8,265 (244,286 ) $ (8,535 ) $ 4,456 $ 116 $ 4,308 $ 8 $ 4,316 Components of comprehensive income, net of tax: Net income      1,153  1,153  1,153 Other comprehensive loss       (227 ) (227 )  (227 ) Total comprehensive income 926 926 Cash dividends declared ($0.30 per common share)      (104 )  (104 )  (104 ) Change in non-controlling interest         (5 ) (5 ) Share-based awards issued 4,591  84     84  84 Cumulative excess tax benefits realized from share-based awards issued   66     66  66 Repurchase of common stock    (4,500 ) (172 )   (172 )  (172 ) Share-based compensation   74     74  74 Balance as of October 31, 2012 595,259 $ 6 $ 8,489 (248,786 ) $ (8,707 ) $ 5,505 $ (111 ) $ 5,182 $ 3 $ 5,185 Components of comprehensive income, net of tax: Net income      724  724  724 Other comprehensive income       202 202  202 Total comprehensive income 926 926 Cash dividends declared ($0.46 per common share)      (156 )  (156 )  (156 ) Change in non-controlling interest           Share-based awards issued 6,370  147     147  147 Tax benefit from share based awards issued   2     2  2 Repurchase of common stock    (20,544 ) (900 )   (900 )  (900 ) Share-based compensation   85     85  85 Balance as of October 31, 2013 601,629 $ 6 $ 8,723 (269,330 ) $ (9,607 ) $ 6,073 $ 91 $ 5,286 $ 3 $ 5,289 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
59 Table of Contents AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES,INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.OVERVIEW AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Overview.
Agilent Technologies,Inc. ("we", "Agilent" or the "company"), incorporated in Delaware in May 1999, is a measurement company, providing core bio-analytical and electronic measurement solutions to the life sciences, diagnostics and genomics, chemical analysis, communications and electronics industries.
Agilent Separation.
On September 19, 2013, Agilent announced plans to separate into two publicly traded companies, one comprising of the life sciences, diagnostics and chemical analysis businesses that will retain the Agilent name,and the other that will be comprised of the electronic measurement business ("EM"). The separation is expected to occur through a tax-free pro rata spin off of the EM company to Agilent shareholders and is expected to be completed early in November 2014.
New Segment.
We formed a new operating segment in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2013. The new life sciences and diagnostics segment was formed by the combination of the life sciences business plus the diagnostics and genomics business. Following this reorganization, Agilent has three business segments comprised of the life sciences and diagnostics business, the chemical analysis business and the electronic measurement business.  The historical segment financial information for the life sciences and diagnostics segment has been recast to conform to this new reporting structure in our financial statements.
Acquisition of Dako A/S.
On June21, 2012 , we completed our acquisition of Dako A/S through the acquisition of 100% of the share capital of Dako A/S, a limited liability company incorporated under the laws of Denmark (Dako), under the share purchase agreement, dated May16, 2012 . Dako provides antibodies, reagents, scientific instruments and software primarily to customers in pathology laboratories. As a result of the acquisition, Dako became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Agilent. The consideration paid was approximately $2,143 million , of which $1,400 million was paid directly to the seller and $743 million was paid to satisfy the outstanding debt of Dako. Agilent funded the acquisition using existing cash. The acquisition has been accounted for in accordance with the authoritative accounting guidance and the results of Dako are included in Agilent's consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition.  The acquisition of Dako and its portfolio was another step to increase our growth in several rapidly expanding areas of diagnostics, including atomic pathology and molecular diagnostics, as well as strengthen our existing offerings with a focus on product development to help in the fight against cancer. For additional details related to the acquisition of Dako, see Note 3, "Acquisitions".
Basis of presentation.
The accompanying financial data has been prepared by us pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and is in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). Our fiscal year end is October31. Unless otherwise stated, all years and dates refer to our fiscal year.
In the first quarter of 2013, we adopted the updated authoritative guidance that increases the prominence of items reported in other comprehensive income. For additional details related to the updated authoritative guidance, see Note 2, "New Accounting Pronouncements".
Revisions.
The statement of cash flows for the year ended October 31, 2012 has been revised to correct the presentation of the purchase of non-controlling interest from investing to financing activities and is not considered material. There was no impact on previously reported net income or the change in net cash for the year ended October 31, 2012. In Note 10, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets", the presentation of goodwill has been revised as of October 31, 2012 and 2011 to correct the allocation of goodwill between segments and is not considered material.There was no impact to the previously reported total balance of goodwill as of October 31, 2012 and 2011.
Reclassifications.
Segment disclosure amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation with no impact on previously reported net income.
Management is responsible for the fair presentation of the accompanying consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance with U.S.GAAP, and has full responsibility for their integrity and accuracy. In the opinion of management, the accompanying consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments necessary to present fairly our consolidated balance sheet, statement of operations, statement of comprehensive income, statement of cash flows and statement of equity for all periods presented.
Principles of consolidation.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the company and our wholly- and majority-owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
60 Table of Contents Use of estimates.
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable. Although these estimates are based on management's best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact the company in the future, actual results may be different from the estimates. Our critical accounting policies are those that affect our financial statements materially and involve difficult, subjective or complex judgments by management. Those policies are revenue recognition, valuation of goodwill and purchased intangible assets, inventory valuation, share-based compensation, retirement and post-retirement plan assumptions, restructuring and accounting for income taxes.
Revenue recognition.
We enter into agreements to sell products (hardware and/or software), services and other arrangements (multiple element arrangements) that include combinations of products and services.
We recognize revenue, net of trade discounts and allowances, provided that (1)persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (2)delivery has occurred, (3) the price is fixed or determinable and (4)collectability is reasonably assured. Delivery is considered to have occurred when title and risk of loss have transferred to the customer, for products, or when the service has been provided. We consider the price to be fixed or determinable when the price is not subject to refund or adjustments. We consider arrangements with extended payment terms not to be fixed or determinable, and accordingly we defer revenue until amounts become due. At the time of the transaction, we evaluate the creditworthiness of our customers to determine the appropriate timing of revenue recognition.
Product revenue.
Our product revenue is generated predominantly from the sales of various types of test equipment. Product revenue, including sales to resellers and distributors, is reduced for estimated returns, when appropriate. For sales or arrangements that include customer-specified acceptance criteria, including those where acceptance is required upon achievement of performance milestones, revenue is recognized after the acceptance criteria have been met. For products that include installation, if the installation meets the criteria to be considered a separate element, product revenue is recognized upon delivery, and recognition of installation revenue is delayed until the installation is complete. Otherwise, neither the product nor the installation revenue is recognized until the installation is complete.
Where software is licensed separately, revenue is recognized when the software is delivered and has been transferred to the customer or, in the case of electronic delivery of software, when the customer is given access to the licensed software programs.
We also evaluate whether collection of the receivable is probable, the fee is fixed or determinable and whether any other undelivered elements of the arrangement exist on which a portion of the total fee would be allocated based on vendor-specific objective evidence.
Service revenue.
Revenue from services includes extended warranty, customer and software support, consulting, training and education. Service revenue is deferred and recognized over the contractual period or as services are rendered and accepted by the customer. For example, customer support contracts are recognized ratably over the contractual period, while training revenue is recognized as the training is provided to the customer. In addition the four revenue recognition criteria described above must be met before service revenue is recognized.
Revenue Recognition for Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables.
Our multiple-element arrangements are generally comprised of a combination of measurement instruments, installation or other start-up services, and/or software and/or support or services. Hardware and software elements are typically delivered at the same time and revenue is recognized upon delivery once title and risk of loss pass to the customer. Delivery of installation, start-up services and other services varies based on the complexity of the equipment, staffing levels in a geographic location and customer preferences, and can range from a few days to a few months. Service revenue is deferred and recognized over the contractual period or as services are rendered and accepted by the customer. Revenue from the sale of software products that are not required to deliver the tangible product's essential functionality are accounted for under software revenue recognition rules which require vendor specific objective evidence ("VSOE") of fair value to allocate revenue in a multiple element arrangement. Our arrangements generally do not include any provisions for cancellation, termination, or refunds that would significantly impact recognized revenue.
We have evaluated the deliverables in our multiple-element arrangements and concluded that they are separate units of accounting if the delivered item or items have value to the customer on a standalone basis and for an arrangement that includes a general right of return relative to the delivered item(s), delivery or performance of the undelivered item(s) is considered probable and substantially in our control. We allocate revenue to each element in our multiple-element arrangements based upon their relative selling prices. We determine the selling price for each deliverable based on a selling price hierarchy. The selling price for a 61 Table of Contents deliverable is based on VSOE if available, third-party evidence ("TPE") if VSOE is not available, or estimated selling price ("ESP") if neither VSOE nor TPE is available. Revenue allocated to each element is then recognized when the basic revenue recognition criteria for that element have been met.
We use VSOE of selling price in the selling price allocation in all instances where it exists. VSOE of selling price for products and services is determined when a substantial majority of the selling prices fall within a reasonable range when sold separately. TPE of selling price can be established by evaluating largely interchangeable competitor products or services in standalone sales to similarly situated customers. As our products contain a significant element of proprietary technology and the solution offered differs substantially from that of competitors, it is difficult to obtain the reliable standalone competitive pricing necessary to establish TPE. ESP represents the best estimate of the price at which we would transact a sale if the product or service were sold on a standalone basis. We determine ESP for a product or service by using historical selling prices which reflect multiple factors including, but not limited to customer type, geography, market conditions, competitive landscape, gross margin objectives and pricing practices. The determination of ESP is made through consultation with and approval by management. We may modify or develop new pricing practices and strategies in the future. As these pricing strategies evolve in changes may occur in ESP. The aforementioned factors may result in a different allocation of revenue to the deliverables in multiple element arrangements, which may change the pattern and timing of revenue recognition for these elements but will not change the total revenue recognized for the arrangement.
Deferred revenue.
Deferred revenue represents the amount that is allocated to undelivered elements in multiple element arrangements. We limit the revenue recognized to the amount that is not contingent on the future delivery of products or services or meeting other specified performance conditions.
Accounts receivable, net.
Trade accounts receivable are recorded at the invoiced amount and do not bear interest. Such accounts receivable has been reduced by an allowance for doubtful accounts, which is our best estimate of the amount of probable credit losses in our existing accounts receivable. We determine the allowance based on customer specific experience and the aging of such receivables, among other factors. The allowance for doubtful accounts as of October 31, 2013 and 2012 was not material. We do not have any off-balance-sheet credit exposure related to our customers. Accounts receivable are also recorded net of product returns.
Share-based compensation.
For the years ended 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , we accounted for share-based awards made to our employees and directors including employee stock option awards, restricted stock units, employee stock purchases made under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan ("ESPP") and performance share awards under Agilent Technologies,Inc. Long-Term Performance Program ("LTPP") using the estimated grant date fair value method of accounting. Under the fair value method, we recorded compensation expense for all share-based awards of $88 million in 2013 , $76 million in 2012 and $73 million in 2011 .
Inventory.
Inventory is valued at standard cost, which approximates actual cost computed on a first-in, first-out basis, not in excess of market value. We assess the valuation of our inventory on a periodic basis and make adjustments to the value for estimated excess and obsolete inventory based on estimates about future demand. The excess balance determined by this analysis becomes the basis for our excess inventory charge. Our excess inventory review process includes analysis of sales forecasts, managing product rollovers and working with manufacturing to maximize recovery of excess inventory.
Warranty.
Our standard warranty terms typically extend for one year from the date of delivery. During the second fiscal quarter of 2013 typical standard warranty arrangements within our electronic measurement business were extended from one year to three years from the date of delivery. Prior to the change in standard warranty terms, we sold extended warranties of more than one year and less than three years which were deferred. Those existing warranties greater than one year and less than three years and previously classified as extended warranties will be amortized over the original period of the warranty. We will continue to sell extended warranties for terms beyond three years within the electronic measurement business. The impact will not be material to the segment or consolidated revenue of Agilent and the anticipated increase to the warranty accrual as a result of the new arrangements will not be material to the consolidated balance sheet of Agilent. No changes were made to the standard and extended warranty terms within our other businesses.We accrue for standard warranty costs based on historical trends in warranty charges as a percentage of net product revenue. The accrual is reviewed regularly and periodically adjusted to reflect changes in warranty cost estimates. Estimated warranty charges are recorded within cost of products at the time products are sold. See Note16, "Guarantees".
Taxes on income.
Income tax expense or benefit is based on income or loss before taxes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized principally for the expected tax consequences of temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts.
62 Table of Contents Shipping and handling costs.
Our shipping and handling costs charged to customers are included in net revenue, and the associated expense is recorded in cost of products for all periods presented.
Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets.
In September 2011, the FASB approved changes to the goodwill impairment guidance which are intended to reduce the cost and complexity of the annual impairment test. The changes provide entities an option to perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether further impairment testing is necessary. The revised standard gives an entity the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether performing the current two-step test is necessary. If an entity believes, as a result of its qualitative assessment, that it is more-likely-than-not (i.e.> 50% chance) that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, the quantitative impairment test will be required. Otherwise, no further testing will be required.
The revised guidance includes examples of events and circumstances that might indicate that a reporting unit's fair value is less than its carrying amount. These include macro-economic conditions such as deterioration in the entity's operating environment or industry or market considerations; entity-specific events such as increasing costs, declining financial performance, or loss of key personnel; or other events such as an expectation that a reporting unit will be sold or a sustained decrease in the stock price on either an absolute basis or relative to peers. Agilent opted to early adopt this guidance for the year ended October31, 2011.
If it is determined, as a result of the qualitative assessment, that it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, the provisions of authoritative guidance require that we perform a two-step impairment test on goodwill. In the first step, we compare the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. The second step (if necessary) measures the amount of impairment by applying fair-value-based tests to the individual assets and liabilities within each reporting unit. As defined in the authoritative guidance, a reporting unit is an operating segment, or one level below an operating segment. We aggregated components of operating segments that have similar economic characteristics into our reporting units.  In October 2013, we combined the life sciences and diagnostics and genomics segments to form the life sciences and diagnostics segment.  As a result, Agilent now has three segments, life sciences and diagnostics, chemical analysis, and electronic measurement segments.
In fiscal year 2013, we assessed goodwill impairment for our four reporting units which consisted of two segments: chemical analysis and electronic measurement; and two reporting units under the life sciences and diagnostics segment. The first of these two reporting units related to our life sciences business and the second related to our diagnostics business. We performed a qualitative test for goodwill impairment of the following three reporting units, as of September 30, 2013: the chemical analysis segment, the electronic measurement segment, and the reporting unit relating to life sciences. Based on the results of our qualitative testing, we believe that it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of these reporting units are greater than their respective carrying values. We performed a quantitative test for goodwill impairment of the reporting unit related to our diagnostics business as of September 30, 2013. Based on the results of our quantitative testing, the fair value was significantly in excess of the carrying value. There was no impairment of goodwill during the years ended October 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011. Each quarter we review the events and circumstances to determine if goodwill impairment is indicated.
Purchased intangible assets consist primarily of acquired developed technologies, proprietary know-how, trademarks, and customer relationships and are amortized using the straight-line method over estimated useful lives ranging from 6 months to 15 years. In-process research and development ("IPR&D") is initially capitalized at fair value as an intangible asset with an indefinite life and assessed for impairment thereafter. When the IPR&D project is complete, it is reclassified as an amortizable purchased intangible asset and is amortized over its estimated useful life. If an IPR&D project is abandoned, Agilent will record a charge for the value of the related intangible asset to Agilent's consolidated statement of operations in the period it is abandoned.
In July 2012, the FASB simplified the guidance for testing for impairment of indefinite-lived intangible assets other than goodwill.  The changes are intended to reduce compliance costs.  Agilent's indefinite-lived intangible assets are IPR&D intangible assets. The revised guidance allows a qualitative approach for testing indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment, similar to the impairment testing guidance for goodwill. It allows the option to first assess qualitative factors (events and circumstances) that could affect the significant inputs used in determining the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset. The qualitative factors assist in determining whether it is more likely than not (meaning a likelihood of more than 50 percent) that the indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired.  An organization may choose to bypass the qualitative assessment for any indefinite-lived intangible asset in any period and proceed directly to calculating its fair value.  The amendments are effective for annual and interim impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after September 15, 2012. Early adoption was permitted. Agilent adopted this guidance for the year ended October 31, 2012. Based on the quantitative test, we recorded an impairment of $1 million in 2013 and an impairment of $1 million in 2012, both relating to IPR&D projects that were abandoned. In all other instances we used the qualitative test and concluded that it was more likely than not that all other indefinite-lived intangible assets were not impaired. No impairments were recorded in 2011.
63 Table of Contents Advertising.
Advertising costs are expensed as incurred and amounted to $44 million in 2013 , $50 million in 2012 and $55 million in 2011 .
Research and development.
Costs related to research, design and development of our products are charged to research and development expense as they are incurred.
Sales Taxes.
Sales taxes collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities are not included in our revenue.
Net income per share.
Basic net income per share is computed by dividing net income- the numerator- by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding- the denominator- during the period excluding the dilutive effect of stock options and other employee stock plans. Diluted net income per share gives effect to all potentially dilutive common stock equivalents outstanding during the period. The dilutive effect of share-based awards is reflected in diluted net income per share by application of the treasury stock method, which includes consideration of unamortized share-based compensation expense, the tax benefits and shortfalls charged to additional paid-in capital and the dilutive effect of in-the-money options and non-vested restricted stock units. Under the treasury stock method, the amount the employee must pay for exercising stock options, unamortized share-based compensation expense and tax benefits or shortfalls are assumed proceeds to be used to repurchase hypothetical shares. See Note6, "Net Income Per Share".
Cash, cash equivalents and short term investments.
We classify investments as cash equivalents if their original or remaining maturity is three months or less at the date of purchase. Cash equivalents are stated at cost, which approximates fair value.
As of October31, 2013 , approximately $2,552 million of our cash and cash equivalents is held outside of the U.S. in our foreign subsidiaries. Under current tax laws, most of the cash could be repatriated to the U.S. but it would be subject to U.S. federal and state income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. Our cash and cash equivalents mainly consist of short term deposits held at major global financial institutions, institutional money market funds, and similar short duration instruments with original maturities of 90days or less. We continuously monitor the creditworthiness of the financial institutions and institutional money market funds in which we invest our funds.
We classify investments as short-term investments if their original maturities are greater than three months and their remaining maturities are one year or less.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments.
The carrying values of certain of our financial instruments including cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable, accrued compensation and other accrued liabilities approximate fair value because of their short maturities. The fair value of long-term equity investments is determined using quoted market prices for those securities when available. For those long-term equity investments accounted for under the cost or equity method, their carrying value approximates their estimated fair value. Equity method investments are reported at the amount of the companys initial investment and adjusted each period for the companys share of the investees income or loss and dividend paid. The fair value of our long-term debt, calculated from quoted prices which are primarily Level 1 inputs under the accounting guidance fair value hierarchy, exceeds the carrying value by approximately $112 million and $210 million as of October31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The fair value of foreign currency contracts used for hedging purposes is estimated internally by using inputs tied to active markets. These inputs, for example, interest rate yield curves, foreign exchange rates, and forward and spot prices for currencies are observable in the market orcan be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. See also Note12, "Fair Value Measurements" for additional information on the fair value of financial instruments.
Concentration of credit risk.
Financial instruments that potentially subject Agilent to significant concentration of credit risk include money market fund investments, time deposits and demand deposit balances. These investments are categorized as cash and cash equivalents and long-term investments. In addition, Agilent has credit risk from derivative financial instruments used in hedging activities and accounts receivable. We invest in a variety of financial instruments and limit the amount of credit exposure with any one financial institution. We have a comprehensive credit policy in place and credit exposure is monitored on an ongoing basis.
Credit risk with respect to our accounts receivable is diversified due to the large number of entities comprising our customer base and their dispersion across many different industries and geographies. Credit evaluations are performed on customers requiring credit over a certain amount and we sell the majority of our products through our direct sales force. Credit risk is mitigated through collateral such as letter of credit, bank guarantees or payment terms like cash in advance. Credit evaluation is performed by an independent team to ensure proper segregation of duties. No single customer accounted for more than 10 percent of combined accounts receivable as of October31, 2013 , or 2012 .
64 Table of Contents Derivative instruments.
Agilent is exposed to global foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate risks in the normal course of business. We enter into foreign exchange hedging contracts, primarily forward contracts and purchased options and, in the past, interest rate swaps to manage financial exposures resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. In the vast majority of cases, these contracts are designated at inception as hedges of the related foreign currency or interest exposures. Foreign currency exposures include committed and anticipated revenue and expense transactions and assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the subsidiary. Interest rate exposures are associated with the company's fixed-rate debt. For option contracts, we exclude time value from the measurement of effectiveness. To qualify for hedge accounting, contracts must reduce the foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate risk otherwise inherent in the amount and duration of the hedged exposures and comply with established risk management policies; foreign exchange hedging contracts generally mature within twelve months and interest rate swaps, if any, mature at the same time as the maturity of the debt. In order to manage foreign currency exposures in a few limited jurisdictions we may enter into foreign exchange contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting. In such circumstances, the local foreign currency exposure is offset by contracts owned by the parent company. We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes.
All derivatives are recognized on the balance sheet at their fair values. For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as a fair value hedge, changes in value of the derivative are recognized in the consolidated statement of operations in the current period, along with the offsetting gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk. For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as a cash flow hedges, changes in the value of the effective portion of the derivative instrument is recognized in accumulated comprehensive income, a component of stockholders' equity. Amounts associated with cash flow hedges are reclassified and recognized in income when either the forecasted transaction occurs or it becomes probable the forecasted transaction will not occur. Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments are recorded on the balance sheet at their fair value and changes in the fair values are recorded in the income statement in the current period. Derivative instruments are subject to master netting arrangements and qualify for net presentation in the balance sheet. Changes in the fair value of the ineffective portion of derivative instruments are recognized in earnings in the current period. Ineffectiveness in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 was not material.  Cash flows from derivative instruments are classified in the statement of cash flows in the same category as the cash flows from the hedged or economically hedged item, primarily in operating activities.
Property, plant and equipment.
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Additions, improvements and major renewals are capitalized; maintenance, repairs and minor renewals are expensed as incurred. When assets are retired or disposed of, the assets and related accumulated depreciation and amortization are removed from our general ledger, and the resulting gain or loss is reflected in the consolidated statement of operations. Buildings and improvements are depreciated over the lesser of their useful lives or the remaining term of the lease and machinery and equipment over three to ten years. We use the straight-line method to depreciate assets.
Leases.
We lease buildings, machinery and equipment under operating leases for original terms ranging generally from one year to twenty years. Certain leases contain renewal options for periods up to six years. As of October 31, 2013 our life sciences and diagnostics segment has approximately $4 million of lease receivables for capital leases and $35 million of net assets for operating leases. We depreciate the assets related to the operating leases over their estimated useful lives.
Capitalized software.
We capitalize certain internal and external costs incurred to acquire or create internal use software. Capitalized software is included in property, plant and equipment and is depreciated over three to five years once development is complete.
Impairment of long-lived assets.
We continually monitor events and changes in circumstances that could indicate carrying amounts of long-lived assets, including intangible assets, may not be recoverable. When such events or changes in circumstances occur, we assess the recoverability of long-lived assets by determining whether the carrying value of such assets will be recovered through undiscounted expected future cash flows. If the total of the undiscounted future cash flows is less than the carrying amount of those assets, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount over the fair value of the assets.
Restructuring.
The main component of our restructuring plan is related to workforce reductions. Workforce reduction charges are accrued when payment of benefits becomes probable that the employees are entitled to the severance and the amounts can be estimated. If the amounts and timing of cash flows from restructuring activities are significantly different from what we have estimated, the actual amount of restructuring and other related charges could be materially different, either higher or lower, than those we have recorded.
65 Table of Contents Employee compensation and benefits.
Amounts owed to employees, such as accrued salary, bonuses and vacation benefits are accounted for within employee compensation and benefits. The total amount of accrued vacation benefit was $158 million and $156 million as of October31, 2013 , and 2012 , respectively.
Foreign currency translation.
We translate and remeasure balance sheet and income statement items into U.S. dollars. For those subsidiaries that operate in a local currency functional environment, all assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars using current exchange rates at the balance sheet date; revenue and expenses are translated using monthly exchange rates which approximate to average exchange rates in effect during each period. Resulting translation adjustments are reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders' equity.
For those subsidiaries that operate in a U.S. dollar functional environment, foreign currency assets and liabilities are remeasured into U.S. dollars at current exchange rates except for nonmonetary assets and capital accounts which are remeasured at historical exchange rates. Revenue and expenses are generally remeasured at monthly exchange rates which approximate average exchange rates in effect during each period. Gains or losses from foreign currency remeasurement are included in consolidated net income. Net gains or losses resulting from foreign currency transactions, including hedging gains and losses, are reported in other income (expense), net and was $6 million loss for fiscal year 2013 , $19 million loss for 2012 and $1 million loss for 2011 , respectively. The loss recorded for fiscal year 2012 includes $14 million of loss associated with the settlement of currency contracts entered into for the purchase of Dako.
2.NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS In June 2011, the FASB issued guidance related to the presentation of comprehensive income. The guidance aims to improve the comparability, consistency, and transparency of financial reporting and to increase the prominence of items reported in other comprehensive income. The guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December15, 2011. In the first quarter of 2013, we adopted the updated authoritative guidance that increases the prominence of items reported in other comprehensive income. The updated authoritative guidance eliminates the option to present components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in equity and requires that changes in other comprehensive income be presented either as a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two but consecutive statements. The adoption of the updated authoritative guidance did impact the presentation of comprehensive income, as we have elected to present two separate but consecutive statements, but did not have an impact on our financial position or results of operations.
In December2011, the FASB issued guidance related to the enhanced disclosures that will enable the users of financial statements to evaluate the effect or potential effect of netting arrangements of an entity's financial position. The amendments require improved information about financial instruments and derivative instruments that are either offset or subject to enforceable master netting arrangements or similar agreement. The guidance is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after January1, 2013, and interim periods within those annual periods. We do not expect a material impact to our consolidated financial statements due to the adoption of this guidance.
In February 2013, the FASB issued the guidance for reporting of amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income. The revised guidance requires reporting the effect of significant reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income on the respective line items in net income if the amount being reclassified is required to be reclassified in its entirety to net income. For other amounts that are not required to be reclassified in their entirety to net income in the same reporting period, an entity is required to cross-reference other disclosures that provide additional detail about these amounts. The amendments do not change the current requirements for reporting net income or other comprehensive income in financial statements. The guidance is effective prospectively for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2012 and interim periods within those years. Early adoption is permitted. We do not expect a material impact to our consolidated financial statements due to the adoption of this guidance.
In March 2013, the FASB issued an amendment to the accounting guidance on foreign currency matters in order to clarify the guidance for the release of cumulative translation adjustment. The guidance requires that a parent deconsolidate a subsidiary or derecognize a group of assets that is a nonprofit activity or a business (other than a sale of in substance real estate or conveyance of oil and gas mineral rights) if the parent ceases to have a controlling financial interest in that group of assets. The guidance is effective for interim and annual periods beginning on or after December15, 2013.We do not expect a material impact to our consolidated financial statements due to the adoption of this guidance.
In July 2013, the FASB issued an amendment to the accounting guidance related to the financial statement presentation of an unrecognized tax benefit when a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss or a tax credit carryforward exists. The guidance requires an unrecognized tax benefit to be presented as a decrease in a deferred tax asset where a net operating loss, a 66 Table of Contents similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward exists and certain criteria are met. This guidance is effective prospectively for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December15, 2013 and is consistent with our current practice.
Other amendments to GAAP in the U.S. that have been issued by the FASB or other standards-setting bodies that do not require adoption until a future date are not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements upon adoption.
3.ACQUISITIONS Acquisition of Dako On June21, 2012 , we completed the acquisition of Dako through the acquisition of 100% of share capital of Dako, a limited liability company incorporated under the laws of Denmark, under the share purchase agreement, dated May16, 2012 . As a result of the acquisition, Dako has become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Agilent. Accordingly, the results of Dako are included in Agilent's consolidated financial statements from the date of the acquisition. For the period from June 22, 2012 to October31, 2012 , Dako's net revenue was $126 million and net loss was $37 million .  The acquisition of Dako and its portfolio is another step to increase our growth in several rapidly expanding areas of diagnostics, including anatomic pathology and molecular diagnostics, as well as strengthen our existing offerings with a focus on product development to help in the fight against cancer.
The consideration paid was approximately $2,143 million , of which $1,400 million was paid directly to the seller and $743 million was paid to satisfy outstanding debt.  Agilent funded the acquisition using existing cash. In connection with the acquisition of Dako, Agilent entered into several foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the currency exchange risk associated with the payment of the purchase price in Danish Krone and the repayment of debt in multiple currencies. The aggregate notional amount of the currencies hedged was $1.7 billion . These foreign exchange contracts did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment and were not designated as hedging instruments. The resulting loss on settlement, on the date of acquisition, was $14 million and was recorded in other income (expense) in the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended October 31, 2012.
The Dako acquisition was accounted for in accordance with the authoritative accounting guidance. The acquired assets and assumed liabilities were recorded by Agilent at their estimated fair values. Agilent determined the estimated fair values with the assistance of appraisals or valuations performed by third party specialists, discounted cash flow analyses, and estimates made by management. We expect to realize revenue synergies, leverage and expand the existing sales channels and product development resources, and utilize the assembled workforce. The company also anticipates opportunities for growth through expanded geographic and customer segment diversity and the ability to leverage additional products and capabilities. These factors, among others, contributed to a purchase price in excess of the estimated fair value of Dako's net identifiable assets acquired (see summary of net assets below), and, as a result, we have recorded goodwill in connection with this transaction.
All goodwill was allocated to the life sciences and diagnostics segment.  We do not expect the goodwill recognized to be deductible for income tax purposes. Any impairment charges made in the future associated with goodwill will not be tax deductible.
A portion of the overall purchase price was allocated to acquired intangible assets. Amortization expense associated with acquired intangible assets is not deductible for tax purposes. Therefore, approximately $185 million was established as a deferred tax liability for the future amortization of these intangibles and is included in "other long-term liabilities" in the table below.
The following table summarizes the allocation of the purchase price to the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the closing date of June21, 2012 (in millions): 67 Table of Contents Cash and cash equivalents $ 11 Accounts receivable 96 Inventories 90 Other current assets 5 Property, plant and equipment 146 Long term investments 11 Intangible assets 738 Other assets 13 Goodwill 1,382 Total assets acquired 2,492 Accounts payable (24 ) Employee compensation and benefits (24 ) Other accrued liabilities (47 ) Long-term debt (43 ) Other long-term liabilities (211 ) Net assets acquired $ 2,143 The fair value of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, other current assets, accounts payable and other accrued liabilities were generally determined using historical carrying values given the short-term nature of these assets and liabilities.
The fair values for acquired inventory, property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets were determined with the input from third party valuation specialists.
The fair values of certain other assets, investments, long-term debt, and certain other long-term liabilities were determined internally using historical carrying values and estimates made by management.
Valuations of intangible assets acquired The components of intangible assets acquired in connection with the Dako acquisition were as follows (in millions): Fair Value Estimated Useful Life Developed product technology $ 287 8 - 9 yrs Customer relationships 140 4 years Tradenames and trademarks 128 12 years Total intangible assets subject to amortization 555 In-process research and development 183 Total intangible assets $ 738 As noted above, the intangible assets, including in-process research and development, were valued with input from valuation specialists.  The In-Process Research and Development was valued using the multi-period excess earnings method under the income approach by discounting forecasted cash flows directly related to the products expecting to result from the projects, net of returns on contributory assets.  The primary in-process project acquired relates to a major new product platform which was released and amortization began in the second quarter of fiscal 2013. See also Note 10, "Goodwill and other Intangible assets" for additional information. Total costs to complete for all Dako In- Process Research and Development were estimated at approximately $49 million over time as of the close date.
Acquisition and integration costs directly related to the Dako acquisition totaled $15 million and $15 million for the years ended October 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively and were recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses. Such costs are expensed in accordance with the authoritative accounting guidance.
68 Table of Contents The following represents pro forma operating results as if Dako had been included in the company's condensed consolidated statements of operations as of the beginning of fiscal 2011(in millions, except per share amounts): 2012 2011 Net revenue $ 7,100 $ 6,976 Net income $ 1,145 $ 909 Net income per share basic $ 3.29 $ 2.62 Net income per share diluted $ 3.24 $ 2.56 The pro forma financial information assumes that the companies were combined as of November1, 2010 and include business combination accounting effects from the acquisition including amortization charges from acquired intangible assets, the impact on cost of sales due to the respective estimated fair value adjustments to inventory, changes to interest income for cash used in the acquisition, interest expense and currency losses associated with debt paid in connection with the acquisition and acquisition related transaction costs and tax related effects. The pro forma information as presented above is for informational purposes only and is not indicative of the results of operations that would have been achieved if the acquisition had taken place at the beginning of fiscal 2011.
The unaudited pro forma financial information for the year ended October 31, 2012 combines the historical results of Agilent for the year ended October 31, 2012 (which includes Dako after the acquisition date) and for Dako for the six months ended March 31, 2012 and the two months ended May 31, 2012.
The unaudited pro forma financial information for the year ended October 31, 2011 combines the historical results of Agilent for the year ended October 31, 2011 and for Dako the year ended December 31, 2011 (due to differences in reporting periods).
The unaudited pro financial information for the years ended October 31, 2012 and 2011 includes the fourth quarter of Dako's calendar reporting period, October 1, 2011 to December 31, 2011, in both years.
69 Table of Contents 4.SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION Agilent accounts for share-based awards in accordance with the provisions of the revised accounting guidance which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based payment awards made to our employees and directors including employee stock option awards, restricted stock units, employee stock purchases made under our ESPP and performance share awards granted to selected members of our senior management under the LTPP based on estimated fair values.
Description of Share-Based Plans Employee stock purchase plan.
Effective November1, 2000, we adopted the ESPP. The ESPP allows eligible employees to contribute up to ten percent of their base compensation to purchase shares of our common stock at 85 percent of the closing market price at purchase date. Shares authorized for issuance in connection with the ESPP are subject to an automatic annual increase of the lesser of one percent of the outstanding shares of common stock of Agilent on November1, or an amount determined by the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors. Under the terms of the ESPP, in no event shall the number of shares issued under the ESPP exceed 75 million shares.
Under our ESPP, employees purchased 1,454,724 shares for $48 million in 2013 , 1,405,774 shares for $47 million in 2012 and 1,205,431 shares for $43 million in 2011 . As of October31, 2013 , the number of shares of common stock authorized and available for issuance under our ESPP was 37,709,692 . This excludes the number of shares of common stock to be issued to participants in consideration of the aggregate participant contributions totaling $23 million as of October31, 2013 .
Incentive compensation plans.
On November19, 2008 and March11, 2009, the Compensation Committee of Board of Directors and the stockholders, respectively, approved the Agilent Technologies,Inc. 2009 Stock Plan (the "2009 Stock Plan") to replace the Company's 1999 Stock Plan and 1999 Stock Non-Employee Director Stock Plan and subsequently reserved 25 million shares of Company common stock that may be issued under the 2009 Plan, plus any shares forfeited or cancelled under the 1999 Stock Plan. The 2009 Stock Plan provides for the grant of awards in the form of stock options, stock appreciation rights ("SARs"), restricted stock, restricted stock units ("RSUs"), performance shares and performance units with performance-based conditions on vesting or exercisability, and cash awards. The 2009 Plan has a term of ten years . As of October31, 2013 , 12,522,185 shares were available for future awards under the 2009 Stock Plan.
Stock options granted under the 2009 Stock Plans may be either "incentive stock options", as defined in Section422 of the Internal Revenue Code, or non-statutory. Options generally vest at a rate of 25 percent per year over a period of four years from the date of grant and generally have a maximum contractual term of ten years . The exercise price for stock options is generally not less than 100 percent of the fair market value of our common stock on the date the stock award is granted.
Effective November1, 2003, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors approved the LTPP, which is a performance stock award program administered under the 2009 Stock Plan, for the company's executive officers and other key employees. Participants in this program are entitled to receive unrestricted shares of the company's stock after the end of a three-year period, if specified performance targets are met. LTPP awards are generally designed to meet the criteria of a performance award with the performance metrics and peer group comparison set at the beginning of the performance period. Based on the performance metrics the final award may vary from zero to 200 percent of the target award. The maximum contractual term for awards under the LTPP program is three years . We consider the dilutive impact of this program in our diluted net income per share calculation only to the extent that the performance conditions are met.
In March 2007, we began to issue restricted stock units under our share-based plans. The estimated fair value of the restricted stock unit awards granted under the Stock Plans is determined based on the market price of Agilent's common stock on the date of grant adjusted for expected dividend yield. Restricted stock units generally vest, with some exceptions, at a rate of 25 percent per year over a period of four years from the date of grant.
Impact of Share-based Compensation Awards We have recognized compensation expense based on the estimated grant date fair value method under the authoritative guidance. For all share-based awards we have recognized compensation expense using a straight-line amortization method. As the guidance requires that share-based compensation expense be based on awards that are ultimately expected to vest, estimated share-based compensation has been reduced for estimated forfeitures.
70 Table of Contents The impact on our results for share-based compensation was as follows: Years Ended October31, 2013 2012 2011 (in millions) Cost of products and services $ 20 $ 16 $ 16 Research and development 12 10 10 Selling, general and administrative 56 50 47 Total share-based compensation expense $ 88 $ 76 $ 73 At October31, 2013 and 2012 there was no share-based compensation capitalized within inventory. The windfall income tax benefit realized from the exercised stock options and similar awards recognized was $2 million in 2013 and zero in 2012 and 2011 , respectively. The weighted average grant date fair value of options, granted in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 was $12.18 , $13.69 and $12.48 per share, respectively.
Included in the 2013 expense is incremental expense for acceleration of share-based compensation related to the announced workforce reduction plan of $3 million . In 2012 and 2011 the expense for the acceleration of share-based compensation related to the announced workforce reduction plan was immaterial. Upon termination of the employees impacted by workforce reduction, the non-vested Agilent awards held by these employees immediately vests. Employees have a period of up to three months in which to exercise the Agilent options before such options are cancelled.
Valuation Assumptions For all periods presented, the fair value of share based awards for employee stock option awards was estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. For all periods presented, shares granted under the LTPP were valued using a Monte Carlo simulation. The estimated fair value of restricted stock unit awards was determined based on the market price of Agilent's common stock on the date of grant adjusted for expected dividend yield. On January17, 2012, the company's Board of Directors approved the initiation of quarterly cash dividends to the company's shareholders. The fair value of all the awards granted prior to the declaration of quarterly cash dividend was measured based on an expected dividend yield of 0%. The ESPP allows eligible employees to purchase shares of our common stock at 85 percent of the fair market value at the purchase date.
The following assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of employee stock options and LTPP grants.
Years Ended October31, 2013 2012 2011 Stock Option Plans: Weighted average risk-free interest rate 0.86% 0.88% 1.49% Dividend yield 1% 0% 0% Weighted average volatility 39% 38% 35% Expected life 5.8 years 5.8 years 5.8 years LTPP: Volatility of Agilent shares 37% 41% 40% Volatility of selected peer-company shares 6%-64% 17%-75% 20%-76% Price-wise correlation with selected peers 49% 62% 55% Both the Black-Scholes and Monte Carlo simulation fair value models require the use of highly subjective and complex assumptions, including the option's expected life and the price volatility of the underlying stock. For all the years presented, the expected stock price volatility assumption was determined using the historical volatility of Agilent's stock options over the most recent historical period equivalent to the expected life.
For the grants awarded under the 2009 stock plan after November1, 2010, we increased the period available to retirement eligible employees to exercise their options from three years at retirement date to the full contractual term of ten years . In developing our estimated life of our employee stock options of 5.8 years for 2011 to 2013, we considered the historical option exercise behavior of our executive employees who were granted the majority of the options in the annual grants made which we believe is representative of future behavior.
71 Table of Contents Share-based Payment Award Activity Employee Stock Options The following table summarizes employee stock option award activity made to our employees and directors for 2013 : Options Outstanding Weighted Average Exercise Price (in thousands) Outstanding at October31, 2012 12,077 $ 30 Granted 1,596 $ 36 Exercised (4,037 ) $ 28 Cancelled/Forfeited/Expired (27 ) $ 17 Outstanding at October31, 2013 9,609 $ 32 Forfeited and expired options from total cancellations in 2013 were as follows: Options Cancelled Weighted Average Exercise Price (in thousands) Forfeited  $  Expired 27 $ 17 Total Options Cancelled during 2013 27 $ 17 The options outstanding and exercisable for equity share-based payment awards at October31, 2013 were as follows: Options Outstanding Options Exercisable Range of Exercise Prices Number Outstanding Weighted Average Remaining Contractual Life Weighted Average Exercise Price Aggregate Intrinsic Value Number Exercisable Weighted Average Remaining Contractual Life Weighted Average Exercise Price Aggregate Intrinsic Value (in thousands) (in years) (in thousands) (in thousands) (in years) (in thousands) $0-25 1,507 2.4 $ 20 $ 45,750 1,507 2.4 $ 20 $ 45,750 $25.01-30 1,051 5.9 $ 29 22,418 691 5.8 $ 29 14,727 $30.01-40 7,045 5.6 $ 35 112,829 3,870 3.4 $ 34 66,448 $40.01& over 6 8.4 $ 45 33 1 8.4 $ 45 8 9,609 5.1 $ 32 $ 181,030 6,069 3.4 $ 30 $ 126,933 The aggregate intrinsic value in the table above represents the total pre-tax intrinsic value, based on the company's closing stock price of $50.76 at October31, 2013 , which would have been received by award holders had all award holders exercised their awards that were in-the-money as of that date. The total number of in-the-money awards exercisable at October31, 2013 was approximately 6 million .
72 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the aggregate intrinsic value of options exercised and the fair value of options granted in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 : Aggregate Intrinsic Value Weighted Average Exercise Price Per Share Value Using Black-Scholes Model (in thousands) Options exercised in fiscal 2011 $ 164,738 $ 27 Black-Scholes per share value of options granted during fiscal 2011 $ 12 Options exercised in fiscal 2012 $ 38,188 $ 23 Black-Scholes per share value of options granted during fiscal 2012 $ 14 Options exercised in fiscal 2013 $ 71,499 $ 28 Black-Scholes per share value of options granted during fiscal 2013 $ 12 As of October31, 2013 , the unrecognized share-based compensation costs for outstanding stock option awards, net of expected forfeitures, was approximately $13 million which is expected to be amortized over a weighted average period of 2.2 years. The amount of cash received from the exercise of share-based awards granted was $161 million in 2013 , $100 million in 2012 and $304 million in 2011 . See Note5, "Income Taxes" for the tax impact on share-based award exercises.
Non-vested Awards The following table summarizes non-vested award activity in 2013 primarily for our LTPP and restricted stock unit awards: Shares Weighted Average Grant Price (in thousands) Non-vested at October31, 2012 3,514 $ 35 Granted 1,394 $ 38 Vested (1,251 ) $ 35 Forfeited (76 ) $ 38 Change in LTPP shares vested in the year due to performance conditions (35 ) $ 36 Non-vested at October31, 2013 3,546 $ 37 As of October31, 2013 , the unrecognized share-based compensation costs for non-vested restricted stock awards, net of expected forfeitures, was approximately $54 million which is expected to be amortized over a weighted average period of 2.2 years. The total fair value of restricted stock awards vested was $44 million for 2013 , $54 million for 2012 and $43 million for 2011 .
73 Table of Contents 5.INCOME TAXES The domestic and foreign components of income before taxes are: Years Ended October 31, 2013 2012 2011 (in millions) U.S. operations $ 39 $ 45 $ 88 Non-U.S. operations 820 998 944 Total income before taxes $ 859 $ 1,043 $ 1,032 The provision (benefit) for income taxes is comprised of: Years Ended October 31, 2013 2012 2011 (in millions) U.S. federal taxes: Current $ 24 $ 6 $ (1 ) Deferred 48 (144 )  Non-U.S. taxes: Current 77 41 (6 ) Deferred (24 ) (22 ) 28 State taxes, net of federal benefit: Current 3 1 (11 ) Deferred 7 8 10 Total provision $ 135 $ (110 ) $ 20 The income tax provision does not reflect potential future tax savings resulting from excess deductions associated with our various share-based award plans.
74 Table of Contents The significant components of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities included on the consolidated balance sheet are: October 31, 2013 2012 Deferred Tax Assets Deferred Tax Liabilities Deferred Tax Assets Deferred Tax Liabilities (in millions) Inventory $ 32 $  $ 24 $  Intangibles  214  239 Property, plant and equipment 18  11  Warranty reserves 25  21  Retiree medical benefits   5  Pension benefits 42  136  Employee benefits, other than retirement 57  60  Net operating loss, capital loss, and credit carryforwards 263  293  Unrealized gains/losses on investments 24  26  Unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries  114  88 Share-based compensation 54  57  Deferred revenue 27  27  Other 36 3 51 1 Subtotal 578 331 711 328 Tax valuation allowance (85 )  (93 )  Total deferred tax assets or deferred tax liabilities $ 493 $ 331 $ 618 $ 328 The significant decrease in 2013 as compared to 2012 for the deferred tax asset relating to pension benefits is due mainly to the tax effect of changes in post-retirement pension plans recognized in other comprehensive income. The deferred tax liability relating to intangible assets is due primarily to acquired intangible assets from Dako. The amortization expenses associated with acquired intangible assets are not deductible for tax purposes.
Agilent records U.S. income taxes on the undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries unless the subsidiaries' earnings are considered indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. As of October 31, 2013 the Company recognized a $114 million deferred tax liability for the overall residual tax expected to be imposed upon the repatriation of unremitted foreign earnings that are not considered permanently reinvested. As of October31, 2013 , the cumulative amount of undistributed earnings considered indefinitely reinvested was $6.1 billion . No deferred tax liability has been recognized on the basis difference created by such earnings since it is our intention to utilize those earnings in the companys foreign operations. Because of the availability of U.S. foreign tax credits, the determination of the unrecognized deferred tax liability on these earnings is not practicable.
The breakdown between current and long-term deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities was as follows for the years 2013 and 2012 : October 31, 2013 2012 (in millions) Current deferred tax assets (included within other current assets) $ 115 $ 95 Long-term deferred tax assets (included within other assets) 264 400 Current deferred tax liabilities (included within other accrued liabilities) (4 ) (2 ) Long-term deferred tax liabilities (included within other long-term liabilities) (213 ) (203 ) Total $ 162 $ 290 Valuation allowances require an assessment of both positive and negative evidence when determining whether it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets are recoverable. Such assessment is required on a jurisdiction by jurisdiction basis. In the fourth quarter of 2012, management concluded that the valuation allowance for most of Agilent's U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets is no longer needed primarily due to the emergence from cumulative losses in recent years, the return to sustainable U.S. operating profits and the expectation of sustainable profitability in future periods. As of October 31, 2012, the cumulative positive evidence outweighed the negative evidence regarding the likelihood that most of the deferred tax asset for Agilent's U.S.
75 Table of Contents consolidated income tax group will be realized. Accordingly, we recognized a non-recurring tax benefit of $280 million relating to the valuation allowance reversal. As of October31, 2013 , we continued to maintain a valuation allowance of $85 million until sufficient positive evidence exists to support reversal. The valuation allowance is mainly related to deferred tax assets for California R&D credits and net operating losses in the Netherlands.
At October31, 2013 , we had federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $22 million and tax credit carryforwards of approximately $113 million . The federal net operating losses expire in years beginning 2021 through 2026 , and the federal tax credits begin to expire in 2018 , if not utilized. At October31, 2013 , we had state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $161 million which expire in years beginning 2014 through 2031 , if not utilized. In addition, we had net state tax credit carryforwards of $26 million that do not expire. All of the federal and some of the state net operating loss carryforwards are subject to change of ownership limitations provided by the Internal Revenue Code and similar state provisions.  At October31, 2013 , we also had foreign net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $472 million . Of this foreign loss, $237 million will expire in years beginning 2014 through 2022, if not utilized. The remaining $235 million has an indefinite life. Some of the foreign losses are subject to annual loss limitation rules. These annual loss limitations in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions may result in the expiration or reduced utilization of the net operating losses.
The authoritative guidance prohibits recognition of a deferred tax asset for excess tax benefits related to stock and stock option plans that have not yet been realized through reduction in income taxes payable. Such unrecognized deferred tax benefit totals $150 million as of October31, 2013 and will be accounted for as a credit to shareholders' equity, if and when realized, through a reduction in income taxes payable. The Company recognized approximately $68 million as a credit to shareholders' equity for cumulative excess tax benefits related to stock and stock option plans that have been realized as of October 31, 2013.
The differences between the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate and our effective tax rate are: Years Ended October 31, 2013 2012 2011 (in millions) Profit before tax times statutory rate $ 301 $ 365 $ 361 State income taxes, net of federal benefit 7 8 (1 ) Non-U.S. income taxed at different rates (162 ) (144 ) (153 ) Change in unrecognized non-U.S. tax benefits  (68 ) (97 ) Valuation allowances (8 ) (280 ) (84 ) Other, net (3 ) 9 (6 ) Provision for income taxes $ 135 $ (110 ) $ 20 Effective tax rate 16 % (11 )% 2 % Agilent enjoys tax holidays in several different jurisdictions, most significantly in Singapore. The tax holidays provide lower rates of taxation on certain classes of income and require various thresholds of investments and employment or specific types of income in those jurisdictions. The tax holidays are due for renewal between 2015 and 2023. As a result of the incentives, the impact of the tax holidays decreased income taxes by $127 million , $122 million , and $127 million in 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 , respectively. The benefit of the tax holidays on net income per share (diluted) was approximately $0.37 , $0.35 , and $0.36 in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively.
For 2013, the effective tax rate was 16 percent. The 16 percent effective tax rate is lower than the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to the mix of earnings in non-U.S. jurisdictions taxed at lower statutory rates; in particular Singapore where we enjoy tax holidays. The effective tax rate also included a $12 million out-of-period adjustment to increase tax expense, recognized in the second quarter of 2013, associated with the write off of deferred tax assets related to foreign tax credits incorrectly claimed in prior years.
For 2012, the effective tax was a benefit of 11 percent.  The 11 percent effective tax rate benefit reflected tax on earnings in jurisdictions that had low effective tax rates and includes a $280 million tax benefit due to the reversal of a valuation allowance for most U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets. Valuation allowances require an assessment of both positive and negative evidence when determining whether it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets are recoverable. Such assessment is required on a jurisdiction by jurisdiction basis. In the fourth quarter of 2012, management concluded that the valuation allowance for most of Agilent's U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets is no longer needed primarily due to the emergence from cumulative losses in recent years, the return to sustainable U.S. operating profits and the expectation of sustainable profitability in future periods. As of October31, 2012, the cumulative positive evidence outweighed the negative evidence regarding the likelihood that most 76 Table of Contents of the deferred tax asset for Agilent's U.S. consolidated income tax group will be realized. Accordingly, the Company recognized a non-recurring tax benefit of $280 million relating to the valuation allowance reversal. The effective tax rate also included a non-recurring tax expense of $88 million relating to an increase in the overall residual U.S.tax expected to be imposed upon the repatriation of unremitted foreign earnings previously considered permanently reinvested. During the fourth quarter of 2012, the Company assessed the forecasted cash needs and the overall financial position of its foreign subsidiaries and determined that a portion of previously permanently reinvested earnings would no longer be reinvested overseas. The effective tax rate was also reduced by a $68 million tax benefit primarily associated with the recognition of previously unrecognized tax benefits and the reversal of the related interest accruals due to the reassessment of certain uncertain tax positions relating to foreign jurisdictions.
For 2011, the effective tax rate was 2 percent. The 2 percent effective tax rate reflected tax on earnings in jurisdictions that had low effective tax rates and included a $97 million net tax benefit primarily associated with a refund in Canada and the recognition of previously unrecognized tax benefits and the reversal of the related interest accruals due to the reassessment of certain uncertain tax positions. The income tax provision also included a $26 million out of period adjustment to reduce the carrying value of certain U.K. deferred tax assets for which the majority was recorded in the quarter ended April30, 2011. The overstatement of these deferred tax assets resulted in an overstatement of the U.K. valuation allowance release in the fourth quarter of 2010. For the full year, this out of period adjustment was substantially offset by other out of period adjustments. The net impact of all out of period adjustments on the effective tax rate was immaterial. Without considering interest and penalties, the effective rate reflected taxes in all jurisdictions except the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions in which income tax expense or benefit continued to be offset by adjustments to valuation allowances.
The breakdown between current and long-term income tax assets and liabilities, excluding deferred tax assets and liabilities, was as follows for the years 2013 and 2012 : October 31, 2013 2012 (in millions) Current income tax assets (included within other current assets) $ 42 $ 65 Long-term income tax assets (included within other assets) 34 49 Current income tax liabilities (included within other accrued liabilities) (48 ) (115 ) Long-term income tax liabilities (included within other long-term liabilities) (341 ) (320 ) Total $ (313 ) $ (321 ) The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax law and regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions. Although the guidance on the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes prescribes the use of a recognition and measurement model, the determination of whether an uncertain tax position has met those thresholds will continue to require significant judgment by management. In accordance with the guidance on the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, for all U.S. and other tax jurisdictions, we recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and interest will be due. The ultimate resolution of tax uncertainties may differ from what is currently estimated, which could result in a material impact on income tax expense. If our estimate of income tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would be required. If events occur and the payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary.
77 Table of Contents The aggregate changes in the balances of our unrecognized tax benefits including all federal, state and foreign tax jurisdictions are as follows: 2013 2012 2011 (in millions) Balance, beginning of year $ 464 $ 469 $ 656 Additions for acquisitions    Additions for tax positions related to the current year 53 56 41 Additions for tax positions from prior years 11 40 18 Reductions for tax positions from prior years (6 ) (90 ) (170 ) Settlements with taxing authorities (3 ) (2 ) (67 ) Statute of limitations expirations (3 ) (9 ) (9 ) Balance, end of year $ 516 $ 464 $ 469 As of October31, 2013 , we had $516 million of unrecognized tax benefits of which $499 million , if recognized, would affect our effective tax rate.
We recognized a tax expense of $5 million , a tax benefit of $4 million and a tax expense of $14 million of interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. Interest and penalties accrued as of October31, 2013 and 2012 were $39 million and $34 million , respectively.
In the U.S., tax years remain open back to the year 2006 for federal income tax purposes and the year 2000 for significant states. Our U.S. federal income tax returns for 2006 through 2007 are currently under audit by the IRS. During the three months ended July 31, 2012, we received a Revenue Agents Report (RAR) for these years and filed a protest to dispute certain adjustments, the most significant of which pertains to the amount of a gain from the disposition of a business that was allocated to the U.S. for income tax purposes. There can be no assurance that the outcome of this dispute will not have a material effect on our operating results or financial condition. In other major jurisdictions where we conduct business, the tax years generally remain open back to the year 2003. With these jurisdictions and the U.S., it is reasonably possible that there could be significant changes to our unrecognized tax benefits in the next twelve months due to either the expiration of a statute of limitation or a tax audit settlement. Given the number of years and numerous matters that remain subject to examination in various tax jurisdictions, we are unable to estimate the range of possible changes to the balance of our unrecognized tax benefits.
6.NET INCOME PER SHARE The following is a reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted net income per share computations for the periods presented below.
Years Ended October 31, 2013 2012 2011 (in millions) Numerator: Net income $ 724 $ 1,153 $ 1,012 Denominators: Basic weighted average shares 341 348 347 Potentially dilutive common stock equivalents stock options and other employee stock plans 4 5 8 Diluted weighted average shares 345 353 355 The dilutive effect of share-based awards is reflected in diluted net income per share by application of the treasury stock method, which includes consideration of unamortized share-based compensation expense, the tax benefits or shortfalls charged to additional paid-in capital and the dilutive effect of in-the-money options and non-vested restricted stock units. Under the treasury stock method, the amount the employee must pay for exercising stock options and unamortized share-based compensation expense and tax benefits or shortfalls collectively are assumed proceeds to be used to repurchase hypothetical shares. An increase in the fair market value of the company's common stock can result in a greater dilutive effect from potentially dilutive awards. The total number of share-based awards issued in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 were 6 million , 5 million and 12 million , respectively.
78 Table of Contents We exclude stock options with exercise prices greater than the average market price of our common stock from the calculation of diluted earnings per share because their effect would be anti-dilutive. For 2013, 2012 and 2011, options to purchase 4,200 , 436,500 and 554,000 shares respectively were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share. In addition, we also exclude from the calculation of diluted earnings per share, stock options, ESPP, LTPP and restricted stock awards whose combined exercise price, unamortized fair value and excess tax benefits or shortfalls collectively were greater than the average market price of our common stock because their effect would also be anti-dilutive. For the year ended 2013, 2012 and 2011, options to purchase 18,300 , 1,544,600 and 115,200 shares respectively were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share.
7.SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION Net cash paid for income taxes was $110 million in 2013 , $86 million in 2012 , and $22 million in 2011 . Cash paid for interest was $112 million in 2013 , $111 million in 2012 and $95 million in 2011 .
8.INVENTORY October31, 2013 2012 (in millions) Finished goods $ 552 $ 509 Purchased parts and fabricated assemblies 514 505 Inventory $ 1,066 $ 1,014 Inventory-related excess and obsolescence charges of $48 million were recorded in total cost of products in 2013 , and $30 million each in 2012 and 2011 , respectively. We record excess and obsolete inventory charges for both inventory on our site as well as inventory at our contract manufacturers and suppliers where we have non-cancellable purchase commitments.
9.PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT, NET October 31, 2013 2012 (in millions) Land $ 131 $ 142 Buildings and leasehold improvements 1,330 1,475 Machinery and equipment 1,019 882 Software 398 383 Total property, plant and equipment 2,878 2,882 Accumulated depreciation and amortization (1,744 ) (1,718 ) Property, plant and equipment, net $ 1,134 $ 1,164 Asset impairments other than restructuring were $3 million in 2013 , zero in 2012 and $7 million in 2011 . Depreciation expenses were $181 million in 2013 , $171 million in 2012 and $142 million in 2011 . For the year ended October 31, 2012 we recorded $15 million of accelerated depreciation related to a building classified as held and used. In accordance with the accounting guidance, it was determined that the building had been abandoned and an assessment was made of the remaining useful life of the building. The building was written down to its appropriate fair value.
79 Table of Contents 10.GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS The goodwill balances at October31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 and the movements in 2013 and 2012 for each of our reportable segments are shown in the table below: Life Sciences and Diagnostics Chemical Analysis Electronic Measurement Total (in millions) Goodwill as of October31, 2011 $ 363 $ 760 $ 444 $ 1,567 Foreign currency translation impact 25 (10 ) (9 ) 6 Goodwill arising from acquisitions 1,419 1 32 1,452 Goodwill as of October31, 2012 $ 1,807 $ 751 $ 467 $ 3,025 Foreign currency translation impact 63 (10 ) (47 ) 6 Goodwill arising from acquisitions and other adjustments 13 4 (1 ) 16 Goodwill as of October31, 2013 $ 1,883 $ 745 $ 419 $ 3,047 We formed a new operating segment in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2013. The new life sciences and diagnostics segment was formed by the combination of the life sciences business plus the diagnostics and genomics business. The historical segment information for the life sciences and diagnostics segment has been recast to conform to this new reporting structure. The goodwill balance as of October 31, 2011 has been revised due to miscategorization at acquisition.
$4 million of goodwill from the life sciences and diagnostics segment and $5 million of goodwill from the chemical analysis segment has been reallocated to the electronic measurement segment.  As of September 30, 2013, we assessed goodwill impairment for our reporting units and no impairment of goodwill was indicated.
The component parts of other intangible assets at October31, 2013 and 2012 are shown in the table below: 80 Table of Contents Other Intangible Assets Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization and Impairments Net Book Value (in millions) As of October31, 2012: Purchased technology $ 849 $ 333 $ 516 Backlog 14 14  Trademark/Tradename 168 27 141 Customer relationships 391 155 236 Total amortizable intangible assets $ 1,422 $ 529 $ 893 In-Process R&D 193  193 Total $ 1,615 $ 529 $ 1,086 As of October31, 2013: Purchased technology $ 1,019 $ 460 $ 559 Backlog 14 14  Trademark/Tradename 176 40 136 Customer relationships 401 215 186 Total amortizable intangible assets $ 1,610 $ 729 $ 881 In-Process R&D 35  35 Total $ 1,645 $ 729 $ 916 In 2013, we recorded additions to goodwill of $16 million related to the acquisition of four businesses.  During the year, we also recorded $5 million of additions and adjustments to other intangibles mostly related to the same four businesses. We recorded $25 million of foreign exchange translation impact to other intangibles in 2013. The $158 million decrease in in-process R&D was largely due to the completion of projects in our life sciences and diagnostics segment.
In 2012, we recorded additions to goodwill of $1,452 million related to ten businesses including the Dako acquisition discussed in Note 3, "Acquisitions".  During the year, we also recorded additions to other intangibles of $786 million including $183 million of Dako in-process research and development, related to the same ten businesses. We recorded $8 million of foreign exchange translation impact to other intangibles in 2012.
Amortization of intangible assets was $199 million in 2013 , $136 million in 2012 , and $111 million in 2011 . In addition, we recorded $1 million of impairments of other intangibles related to the cancellation of an in-process research and development project during 2013. Future amortization expense related to finite-lived existing purchased intangible assets is estimated to be $194 million in 2014 , $181 million for 2015 , $154 million for 2016 , $106 million for 2017 , $70 million for 2018 , and $176 million thereafter.
11.INVESTMENTS Equity Investments The following table summarizes the company's equity investments as of October31, 2013 and 2012 (net book value): October31, 2013 2012 (in millions) Short-Term Cost method investments $  11 Long-Term Cost method investments $ 44 $ 59 Trading securities 51 50 Available-for-sale investments 25  Equity method investments 19  Total $ 139 $ 109 81 Table of Contents Cost method investments consist of non-marketable equity securities and two funds and are accounted for at historical cost. Trading securities are reported at fair value, with gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value recognized currently in earnings. Investments designated as available-for-sale were reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in stockholders' equity. Equity method investments are reported at the amount of the companys initial investment and adjusted each period for the companys share of the investees income or loss and dividend paid.
Investments in available-for-sale securities at estimated fair value were as follows as of October31, 2013 : October 31, 2013 Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Estimated Fair Value (in millions) Equity securities 15 10  25 $ 15 $ 10 $  $ 25 All of our investments, excluding trading securities, are subject to periodic impairment review. The impairment analysis requires significant judgment to identify events or circumstances that would likely have significant adverse effect on the future value of the investment. We consider various factors in determining whether an impairment is other-than-temporary, including the severity and duration of the impairment, forecasted recovery, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the investee, and our ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value.
Amounts included in other income (expense), net for realized gains on the sale of available-for-sale securities and the appropriate share of loss on equity method investments were as follows: Years Ended October31, 2013 2012 2011 (in millions) Available-for-sale investments realized gain $ 1 $ 2 $ 6 Equity method investments - share of losses (2 ) $  $  Net unrealized gains and losses on our trading securities portfolio were $8 million of unrealized gains in 2013 , $5 million of unrealized gains in 2012 and $1 million of unrealized gains in 2011 .
Realized gains from the sale of cost method securities were zero for 2013 , $2 million for 2012 and zero for 2011 . Proceeds from the sale of cost method investments were $11 million in 2013.
Investments in Leases In February 2001 , we sold a parcel of surplus land in San Jose, California for $287 million in cash. In August 2001, we acquired a long-term leasehold interest in several municipal properties in southern California. In 2002 , we received $237 million in non-refundable prepaid rent related to the leasehold interests described above.
In December 2011 , we terminated our leasehold interest in the municipal properties, received $80 million in cash and recognized a loss of approximately $2 million .
12.FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS The authoritative guidance defines fair value as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be recorded at fair value, we consider the principal or most advantageous market and assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.
Fair Value Hierarchy 82 Table of Contents The guidance establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the use of inputs used in valuation techniques into three levels. A financial instrument's categorization within the fair value hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. There are three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value: Level1 applies to assets or liabilities for which there are quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level2 applies to assets or liabilities for which there are inputs other than quoted prices included within level1 that are observable, either directly or indirectly, for the asset or liability such as: quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in less active markets; or other inputs that can be derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data.
Level3 applies to assets or liabilities for which there are unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology that are significant to the measurement of the fair value of the assets or liabilities.
83 Table of Contents Financial Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of October31, 2013 were as follows: Fair Value Measurement at October31, 2013 Using October31, 2013 Quoted Prices in Active Markets for Identical Assets (Level1) Significant Other Observable Inputs (Level2) Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level3) (in millions) Assets: Short-term Cash equivalents (money market funds) $ 1,968 $ 1,968 $  $  Derivative instruments (foreign exchange contracts) 7  7  Long-term Trading securities 51 51   Available-for-sale investments 25 25   Total assets measured at fair value $ 2,051 $ 2,044 $ 7 $  Liabilities: Short-term Derivative instruments (foreign exchange contracts) $ 6 $  $ 6 $  Long-term Deferred compensation liability 51  51  Total liabilities measured at fair value $ 57 $  $ 57 $  Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of October31, 2012 were as follows: Fair Value Measurement at October31, 2012 Using October 31, 2012 Quoted Prices in Active Markets for Identical Assets (Level1) Significant Other Observable Inputs (Level2) Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level3) (in millions) Assets: Short-term Cash equivalents (money market funds) $ 1,834 $ 1,834 $  $  Derivative instruments (foreign exchange and interest rate swap contracts) 7  7  Long-term Trading securities 50 50   Total assets measured at fair value $ 1,891 $ 1,884 $ 7 $  Liabilities: Short-term Derivative instruments (foreign exchange contracts) $ 6 $  $ 6 $  Long-term Deferred compensation liability 48  48  Total liabilities measured at fair value $ 54 $  $ 54 $  Our money market funds, trading securities, and available-for-sale investments are generally valued using quoted market prices and therefore are classified within level1 of the fair value hierarchy. Our derivative financial instruments are classified within level2, as there is not an active market for each hedge contract, but the inputs used to calculate the value of the instruments are tied to active markets. Our deferred compensation liability is classified as level2 because although the values are not directly based on quoted market prices, the inputs used in the calculations are observable.
84 Table of Contents Trading securities and deferred compensation liability are reported at fair value, with gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value recognized currently in net income. Investments designated as available-for-sale and certain derivative instruments are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in stockholders' equity. Realized gains and losses from the sale of these instruments are recorded in net income.
Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Non-Recurring Basis Long-Lived Assets For assets measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis, the following table summarizes the impairments included in net income for the years ended October31, 2013 and 2012 : Years Ended October31, 2013 2012 (in millions) Long-lived assets held and used $ 2 $ 1 Long-lived assets held for sale $ 1 $  Long-lived assets held and used with a carrying amount of $2 million were written down to their fair value of zero , resulting in an impairment charge of $2 million , which was included in net income for 2013 . Long-lived assets held and used with a carrying amount of $1 million were written down to their fair value of zero , resulting in an impairment charge of $1 million , which was included in net income for 2012 .
Long-lived assets held for sale with a carrying amount of $3 million were written down to their fair value of $2 million , resulting in an impairment charge of $1 million which was included in net income for 2013 .
Fair values for the impaired long-lived assets were measured using level2 inputs.
13.DERIVATIVES We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and interest rate changes in the normal course of our business. As part of risk management strategy, we use derivative instruments, primarily forward contracts, purchased options, and interest rate swaps, to hedge economic and/or accounting exposures resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
Fair Value Hedges We are exposed to interest rate risk due to the mismatch between the interest expense we pay on our loans at fixed rates and the variable rates of interest we receive from cash, cash equivalents and other short-term investments. We have issued long-term debt in U.S. dollars at fixed interest rates based on the market conditions at the time of financing. The fair value of our fixed rate debt changes when the underlying market rates of interest change, and, in the past, we have used interest rate swaps to change our fixed interest rate payments to U.S. dollar LIBOR-based variable interest expense to match the floating interest income from our cash, cash equivalents and other short term investments. As of October31, 2013 , all interest rate swap contracts had either been terminated or had expired.
On November25, 2008 , we terminated two interest rate swap contracts associated with our 2017 senior notes that represented the notional amount of $400 million . The asset value, including interest receivable, upon termination was approximately $43 million and the amount to be amortized at October31, 2013 was $22 million . On June6, 2011, we also terminated five interest rate swap contracts associated with our 2015 senior notes that represented the notional amount of $500 million . The asset value, including interest receivable, upon termination was approximately $31 million and the amount to be amortized at October31, 2013 was $12 million . On August9, 2011 , we terminated five interest rate swap contracts related to our 2020 senior notes that represented the notional amount of $500 million . The asset value, including interest receivable, upon termination for these contracts was approximately $34 million and the amount to be amortized at October31, 2013 was $26 million . The proceeds from all such terminated interest rate swaps are recorded as operating cash flows and the gain is being deferred and amortized over the remaining life of the respective senior notes.
85 Table of Contents Cash Flow Hedges We enter into foreign exchange contracts to hedge our forecasted operational cash flow exposures resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These foreign exchange contracts, carried at fair value, have maturities between one and twelve months. These derivative instruments are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges under the criteria prescribed in the authoritative guidance. The changes in the value of the effective portion of the derivative instrument are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income. Amounts associated with cash flow hedges are reclassified to cost of sales in the consolidated statement of operations when the forecasted transaction occurs. If it becomes probable that the forecasted transaction will not occur, the hedge relationship will be de-designated and amounts accumulated in other comprehensive income will be reclassified to other income (expense) in the current period. Changes in the fair value of the ineffective portion of derivative instruments are recognized in earnings in the consolidated statement of operations in the current period. We record the premium paid (time value) of an option on the date of purchase as an asset. For options designated as cash flow hedges, changes in the time value are excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness and are recognized in other income (expense) over the life of the option contract. Ineffectiveness in 2013, 2012 and 2011 was not significant. For the year ended October 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 gains and losses recognized in earnings due to de-designation of cash flow hedge contracts were not significant.
In July 2012, Agilent executed treasury lock agreements for $400 million in connection with future interest payments to be made on our 2022 senior notes issued on September 10, 2012.  We designated the treasury lock as a cash flow hedge. The treasury lock contracts were terminated on September 10, 2012 and we recognized a deferred gain in accumulated other comprehensive income of $3 million to be amortized to interest expense over the life of the 2022 senior notes.
Other Hedges Additionally, we enter into foreign exchange contracts to hedge monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our subsidiaries. These foreign exchange contracts are carried at fair value and do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment and are not designated as hedging instruments. Changes in value of the derivative are recognized in other income (expense) in the consolidated statement of operations, in the current period, along with the offsetting foreign currency gain or loss on the underlying assets or liabilities.
In connection with the acquisition of Dako, Agilent entered into several foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the currency exchange risk associated with the payment of the purchase price in Danish Krone and the repayment of debt in multiple currencies. The aggregate notional amount of the currencies hedged was $1.7 billion . These foreign exchange contracts did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment and were not designated as hedging instruments. The resulting loss on settlement, on the date of acquisition, was $14 million and was recorded in other income (expense) in the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended October 31, 2012.
Our use of derivative instruments exposes us to credit risk to the extent that the counterparties may be unable to meet the terms of the agreement. We do, however, seek to mitigate such risks by limiting our counterparties to major financial institutions which are selected based on their credit ratings and other factors. We have established policies and procedures for mitigating credit risk that include establishing counterparty credit limits, monitoring credit exposures, and continually assessing the creditworthiness of counterparties.
A number of our derivative agreements contain threshold limits to the net liability position with counterparties and are dependent on our corporate credit rating determined by the major credit rating agencies. The counterparties to the derivative instruments may request collateralization, in accordance with derivative agreements, on derivative instruments in net liability positions.
The aggregate fair value of all derivative instruments with credit-risk-related contingent features that were in a net liability position as of October31, 2013 , was $3 million . The credit-risk-related contingent features underlying these agreements had not been triggered as of October31, 2013 .
86 Table of Contents There were 151 foreign exchange forward contracts and 19 foreign exchange option contracts open as of October31, 2013 and designated as cash flow hedges. There were 170 foreign exchange forward contracts open as of October31, 2013 not designated as hedging instruments. The aggregated U.S. Dollar notional amounts by currency and designation as of October31, 2013 were as follows: Derivatives in Cash Flow Hedging Relationships Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments Forward Contracts Option Contracts Forward Contracts Currency Buy/(Sell) Buy/(Sell) Buy/(Sell) (in millions) Euro $ (23 ) $  $ 243 British Pound (17 )  2 Canadian Dollar (37 )   Australian Dollars 11  9 Malaysian Ringgit 113  14 Japanese Yen (56 ) (97 ) 3 Other (9 )  (10 ) $ (18 ) $ (97 ) $ 261 The notional amounts within derivatives not designated as hedging instruments include forward cross currency contracts of Danish Krone equivalent of $70 million to sell Euro, $6 million to sell Japanese Yen and $5 million to buy other currencies.
Derivative instruments are subject to master netting arrangements and are disclosed gross in the balance sheet. The gross fair values and balance sheet location of derivative instruments held in the consolidated balance sheet as of October31, 2013 and 2012 were as follows: Fair Values of Derivative Instruments Asset Derivatives Liability Derivatives Fair Value Fair Value Balance Sheet Location October31, 2013 October31, 2012 Balance Sheet Location October31, 2013 October31, 2012 (in millions) Derivatives designated as hedging instruments: Fair value hedges Interest rate contracts Other current assets $  $  Other accrued liabilities $  $  Other assets $  $  Other long-term liabilities $  $  Cash flow hedges Foreign exchange contracts Other current assets $ 4 $ 4 Other accrued liabilities $ 4 $ 2 $ 4 $ 4 $ 4 $ 2 Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments: Foreign exchange contracts Other current assets $ 3 $ 3 Other accrued liabilities $ 2 $ 4 Total derivatives $ 7 $ 7 $ 6 $ 6 87 Table of Contents The effect of derivative instruments for interest rate swap contracts and for foreign exchange contracts designated as hedging instruments and not designated as hedging instruments in our consolidated statement of operations were as follows: 2013 2012 2011 (in millions) Derivatives designated as hedging instruments: Fair Value Hedges Gain on interest rate swap contracts, including interest accrual, recognized in interest expense $  $  $ 27 Gain (loss) on hedged item, recognized in interest expense $  $ 3 $ (3 ) Cash Flow Hedges Gain recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income $ 10 $ 7 $  Gain (loss) reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income into cost of sales $ 13 $ 8 $ (5 ) Treasury Lock Agreements Gain recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income $  $ 3 $  Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments: Gain (loss) recognized in other income (expense), net $ 7 $ (34 ) $ 13 The estimated net amount of existing loss at October31, 2013 that is expected to be reclassified from other comprehensive income to the cost of sales within the next twelve months is $1 million .
14.RESTRUCTURING In the second quarter of 2013, in response to slow revenue growth due to macroeconomic conditions, we accrued for a targeted restructuring program that is expected to reduce Agilent's total headcount by approximately 450 regular employees, representing approximately 2 percent of our global workforce. The timing and scope of workforce reductions will vary based on local legal requirements. When completed, the restructuring program is expected to result in a reduction in annual cost of sales and operating expenses.
As previously announced, we are streamlining our manufacturing operations. As part of this action, we anticipate the reduction of approximately 250 positions to reduce our annual cost of sales.
Total headcount reductions from targeted restructuring and manufacturing streamlining will be approximately 700 positions. Within the U.S, we have substantially completed these restructuring activities. Internationally, we expect to complete the majority of these restructuring activities by the end of the second half of fiscal 2014.  As of October 31, 2013, approximately 250 employees were terminatedunder the targeted restructuring program and 100 employees were terminated under the streamlining of manufacturing.
A summary of total restructuring accrual activity is shown in the table below: Workforce Reduction (in millions) Balance as of October31, 2012 $  Income statement expense 53 Cash payments (29 ) Balance as of October31, 2013 $ 24 The restructuring accruals, which totaled $24 million at October31, 2013 , are recorded in other accrued liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet. These balances reflect estimated future cash outlays.
88 Table of Contents A summary of the charges in the consolidated statement of operations resulting from all restructuring plans is shown below: Year Ended October31, 2013 (in millions) Cost of products and services $ 19 Research and development 9 Selling, general and administrative 25 Total restructuring, asset impairments and other special charges $ 53 15.RETIREMENT PLANS AND POST RETIREMENT PENSION PLANS General.
Substantially all of our employees are covered under various defined benefit and/or defined contribution retirement plans. Additionally, we sponsor post-retirement health care benefits for our eligible U.S. employees.
Agilent provides U.S. employees, who meet eligibility criteria under the Agilent Technologies,Inc. Retirement Plan ("RP"), defined benefits which are based on an employee's base or target pay during the years of employment and on length of service. For eligible service through October31, 1993, the benefit payable under the Agilent Retirement Plan is reduced by any amounts due to the eligible employee under our defined contribution Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan ("DPSP"), which was closed to new participants as of November 1993.
In addition, in the U.S., Agilent maintains the Supplemental Benefits Retirement Plan ("SBRP"), a supplemental unfunded non-qualified defined benefit plan to provide benefits that would be provided under the RP but for limitations imposed by the Internal Revenue Code. The RP and the SBRP comprise the "U.S. Plans".
As of October31, 2013 and 2012 , the fair value of plan assets of the DPSP for U.S. Agilent Employees was $552 million and $534 million , respectively. Note that the projected benefit obligation for the DPSP equals the fair value of plan assets.
Eligible employees outside the U.S. generally receive retirement benefits under various retirement plans based upon factors such as years of service and/or employee compensation levels. Eligibility is generally determined in accordance with local statutory requirements.
401(k) defined contribution plan .Eligible U.S. employees may participate in the Agilent Technologies,Inc. 401(k) Plan (the "401(k) Plan"). Enrollment in the 401(k) Plan is automatic for employees who meet eligibility requirements unless they decline participation. Under the 401(k) Plan, we provide matching contributions to employees up to a maximum of 4 percent of an employee's annual eligible compensation. The maximum contribution to the 401(k) Plan is 50 percent of an employee's annual eligible compensation, subject to regulatory limitations. The 401(k) Plan employer expense included in income from operations was $25 million in 2013 , $25 million in 2012 and $24 million in 2011 .
Post-retirement medical benefit plans.
In addition to receiving retirement benefits, U.S. employees who meet eligibility requirements as of their termination date may participate in the Agilent Technologies,Inc. Health Plan for Retirees. Eligible retirees who were less than age 50 as of January1, 2005 and who retire after age 55 with 15 or more years of service are eligible for a fixed amount which can be utilized to pay for either Agilent sponsored plans and/or individual medicare plans. Eligible retirees who were at least age 50 as of January1, 2005 and who retire after age 55 with 15 or more years of service currently choose from managed-care, indemnity options or individual medicare plans, with the company subsidization level or stipend dependent on a number of factors including eligibility and length of service. See Plan Amendments below for changes to these benefits.
Plan Amendments.
On April1, 2011, changes to the Agilent Technologies,Inc. Health Plan for Retirees were approved. Effective January1, 2012, employees who were at least age 50 as of January1, 2005 and who retire after age 55 with 15 or more years of service are eligible for fixed dollar subsidies and stipends. Grandfathered retirees receive a fixed monthly subsidy toward pre-65 premium costs (subsidy capped at 2011 levels) and a fixed monthly stipend post-65. The subsidy amounts will not increase. In connection with these changes, we reduced our Accumulated Prospective Benefit Obligation by $194 million with the offset going to accumulated other comprehensive income.
89 Table of Contents Components of net periodic cost.
The company uses alternate methods of amortization as allowed by the authoritative guidance which amortizes the actuarial gains and losses on a consistent basis for the years presented. For U.S. Plans, gains and losses are amortized over the average future working lifetime. For most Non-U.S. Plans and U.S. Post-Retirement Benefit Plans, gains and losses are amortized using a separate layer for each year's gains and losses. For the years ended October31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , components of net periodic benefit cost and other amounts recognized in other comprehensive income were comprised of: Pensions U.S. Post-Retirement Benefit Plans U.S. Plans Non-U.S. Plans 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 (in millions) Net periodic benefit cost (benefit) Service cost benefits earned during the period $ 44 $ 40 $ 42 $ 36 $ 33 $ 32 $ 4 $ 3 $ 3 Interest cost on benefit obligation 24 27 28 68 74 72 12 15 21 Expected return on plan assets (51 ) (46 ) (44 ) (97 ) (92 ) (94 ) (20 ) (19 ) (21 ) Amortization of net actuarial loss 13 7 4 55 42 40 18 16 14 Amortization of prior service benefit (12 ) (12 ) (12 ) (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) (35 ) (35 ) (26 ) Net periodic benefit cost (benefit) 18 16 18 61 56 49 (21 ) (20 ) (9 ) Curtailments and settlements   (1 )       Total periodic benefit cost (benefit) $ 18 $ 16 $ 17 $ 61 $ 56 $ 49 $ (21 ) $ (20 ) $ (9 ) Other changes in plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in other comprehensive (income) loss Net actuarial (gain) loss $ (122 ) $ 69 $ 31 $ (85 ) $ 214 $ 40 $ (57 ) $ 22 $ 12 Amortization of net actuarial loss (13 ) (7 ) (4 ) (55 ) (42 ) (40 ) (18 ) (16 ) (14 ) Prior service cost (benefit)      6   (194 ) Amortization of prior service benefit 12 12 12 1 1 1 35 35 26 Foreign currency    2 (5 ) 11    Total recognized in other comprehensive (income) loss $ (123 ) $ 74 $ 39 $ (137 ) $ 168 $ 18 $ (40 ) $ 41 $ (170 ) Total recognized in net periodic benefit cost (benefit) and other comprehensive (income) loss $ (105 ) $ 90 $ 56 $ (76 ) $ 224 $ 67 $ (61 ) $ 21 $ (179 ) In 2011, due to payments exceeding the sum of service cost plus interest cost in the U.S. Supplemental Benefits Retirement Plan, we recorded a $1 million settlement gain in the income statement as required by authoritative guidance.
90 Table of Contents Funded status.
As of October31, 2013 and 2012 , the funded status of the defined benefit and post-retirement benefit plans was: U.S. Defined Benefit Plans Non-U.S. Defined Benefit Plans U.S.
Post-Retirement Benefit Plans 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 (in millions) Change in fair value of plan assets: Fair value beginning of year $ 654 $ 578 $ 1,801 $ 1,684 $ 261 $ 258 Actual return on plan assets 132 65 267 158 47 25 Employer contributions 30 30 89 54 1  Participants' contributions   1    Benefits paid (34 ) (19 ) (49 ) (46 ) (21 ) (22 ) Currency impact   (64 ) (49 )   Fair value end of year $ 782 $ 654 $ 2,045 $ 1,801 $ 288 $ 261 Change in benefit obligation: Benefit obligation beginning of year $ 771 $ 637 $ 2,117 $ 1,830 $ 343 $ 319 Service cost 44 40 36 33 4 3 Interest cost 24 27 68 74 12 15 Participants' contributions   1    Plan amendment       Actuarial (gain) loss (41 ) 87 85 280 (31 ) 28 Benefits paid (35 ) (20 ) (49 ) (46 ) (21 ) (22 ) Curtailments       Currency impact   (59 ) (54 )   Benefit obligation end of year $ 763 $ 771 $ 2,199 $ 2,117 $ 307 $ 343 Overfunded (underfunded) status of PBO $ 19 $ (117 ) $ (154 ) $ (316 ) $ (19 ) $ (82 ) Amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheet consist of: Other assets $ 34 $  $ 60 $  $  $  Employee compensation and benefits (2 ) (2 )     Retirement and post-retirement benefits (13 ) (115 ) (214 ) (316 ) (19 ) (82 ) Net asset (liability) $ 19 $ (117 ) $ (154 ) $ (316 ) $ (19 ) $ (82 ) Amounts Recognized in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (loss): Actuarial (gains) losses $ (8 ) $ 127 $ 525 $ 683 $ 119 $ 194 Prior service costs (benefits) (67 ) (79 ) (4 ) (8 ) (183 ) (218 ) Total $ (75 ) $ 48 $ 521 $ 675 $ (64 ) $ (24 ) The amounts in accumulated other comprehensive income expected to be recognized as components of net expense during 2014 are as follows: U.S. Defined Benefit Plans Non-U.S. Defined Benefit Plans U.S. Post-Retirement Benefit Plans (in millions) Amortization of net prior service cost (benefit) $ (12 ) $ (1 ) $ (35 ) Amortization of actuarial net loss (gain) $ (1 ) $ 45 $ 14 Investment policies and strategies as of October31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 .
In the U.S., our Agilent Retirement Plan and post-retirement benefit target asset allocations are approximately 80 percent to equities and approximately 20 percent to fixed income investments. Our DPSP target asset allocation is approximately 60 percent to equities and approximately 40 percent to fixed income investments. Approximately, 5 percent of our U.S. equity portfolio consists of limited partnerships. The general investment objective for all our plan assets is to obtain the optimum rate of investment return on the total investment portfolio consistent with the assumption of a reasonable level of risk. Specific investment objectives for the plans' portfolios are to: maintain and enhance the purchasing power of the plans' assets; achieve investment returns consistent with the level of risk being taken; 91 Table of Contents and earn performance rates of return in accordance with the benchmarks adopted for each asset class. Outside the U.S., our target asset allocation is from 37 to 60percent to equities, from 40 to 60percent to fixed income investments, and from zero to 6percent to real estate investments and from zero to 7 percent to cash, depending on the plan. All plans' assets are broadly diversified. Due to fluctuations in equity markets, our actual allocations of plan assets at October31, 2013 and 2012 differ from the target allocation. Our policy is to bring the actual allocation in line with the target allocation.
Equity securities include exchange-traded common stock and preferred stock of companies from broadly diversified industries. Fixed income securities include a global portfolio of corporate bonds of companies from diversified industries, government securities, mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities, derivative instruments and other. Other investments include a group trust consisting primarily of private equity partnerships as well as other investments. Portions of the cash and cash equivalent, equity, and fixed income investments are held in commingled funds.
Fair Value.
The measurement of the fair value of pension and post-retirement plan assets uses the valuation methodologies and the inputs as described in Note12.
Cash and Cash Equivalents- Cash and cash equivalents consist of short-term investment funds. The funds also invest in short-term domestic fixed income securities and other securities with debt-like characteristics emphasizing short-term maturities and quality. Cash and cash equivalents are classified as Level1 investments except when the cash and cash equivalents are held in commingled funds, which have a daily net value derived from quoted prices for the underlying securities in active markets; these are classified as Level2 investments.
Equity- Some equity securities consisting of common and preferred stock are held in commingled funds, which have daily net asset values derived from quoted prices for the underlying securities in active markets; these are classified as Level2 investments.  Commingled funds which have quoted prices in active markets are classified as Level 1 investments.
Fixed Income- Some of the fixed income securities are held in commingled funds, which have daily net asset values derived from the underlying securities; these are classified as Level2 investments.  Commingled funds which have quoted prices in active markets are classified as Level 1 investments.
Other Investments- Other investments includes property based pooled vehicles which invest in real estate. Market net asset values are regularly published in the financial press or on corporate websites and so these investments are classified as Level2. Other investments also includes partnership investments where, due to their private nature, pricing inputs are not readily observable. Asset valuations are developed by the general partners that manage the partnerships. These valuations are based on proprietary appraisals, application of public market multiples to private company cash flows, utilization of market transactions that provide valuation information for comparable companies and other methods. Holdings of limited partnerships are classified as Level3.
92 Table of Contents The following tables present the fair value of U.S. Defined Benefit Plans assets classified under the appropriate level of the fair value hierarchy as of October31, 2013 and 2012 .
Fair Value Measurement at October31, 2013 Using October31, 2013 Quoted Prices in Active Markets for Identical Assets (Level1) Significant Other Observable Inputs (Level2) Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level3) (in millions) Cash and Cash Equivalents $ 8 $ 1 $ 7 $  Equity 616 191 425  Fixed Income 139 17 122  Other Investments 19 2  17 Total assets measured at fair value $ 782 $ 211 $ 554 $ 17 Fair Value Measurement at October31, 2012 Using October31, 2012 Quoted Prices in Active Markets for Identical Assets (Level1) Significant Other Observable Inputs (Level2) Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level3) (in millions) Cash and Cash Equivalents $ 8 $ 1 $ 7 $  Equity 486 134 352  Fixed Income 137 15 122  Other Investments 23 2  21 Total assets measured at fair value $ 654 $ 152 $ 481 $ 21 For U.S. Defined Benefit Plans assets measured at fair value using significant unobservable inputs (level3), the following table summarizes the change in balances during 2013 and 2012 : Years Ended October31.
2013 2012 Balance, beginning of year $ 21 $ 26 Realized gains 4 3 Unrealized gains/(losses) (2 ) (2 ) Purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements (6 ) (6 ) Transfers in (out)   Balance, end of year $ 17 $ 21 The following tables present the fair value of U.S. Post-Retirement Benefit Plans assets classified under the appropriate level of the fair value hierarchy as of October31, 2013 and 2012 .
Fair Value Measurement at October31, 2013 Using October31, 2013 Quoted Prices in Active Markets for Identical Assets (Level1) Significant Other Observable Inputs (Level2) Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level3) (in millions) Cash and Cash Equivalents $ 5 $ 2 $ 3 $  Equity 220 68 152  Fixed Income 52 6 46  Other Investments 11 1  10 Total assets measured at fair value $ 288 $ 77 $ 201 $ 10 93 Table of Contents Fair Value Measurement at October31, 2012 Using October31, 2012 Quoted Prices in Active Markets for Identical Assets (Level1) Significant Other Observable Inputs (Level2) Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level3) (in millions) Cash and Cash Equivalents $ 5 $ 2 $ 3 $  Equity 189 52 137  Fixed Income 54 6 48  Other Investments 13 1  12 Total assets measured at fair value $ 261 $ 61 $ 188 $ 12 For U.S. Post-Retirement Benefit Plans assets measured at fair value using significant unobservable inputs (level3), the following table summarizes the change in balances during 2013 and 2012 : Years Ended October31, 2013 2012 Balance, beginning of year $ 12 $ 15 Realized gains 2 2 Unrealized gains/(losses) (1 ) (1 ) Purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements (3 ) (4 ) Transfers in (out)   Balance, end of year $ 10 $ 12 The following tables present the fair value of non-U.S. Defined Benefit Plans assets classified under the appropriate level of the fair value hierarchy as of October31, 2013 and 2012: Fair Value Measurement at October31, 2013 Using October31, 2013 Quoted Prices in Active Markets for Identical Assets (Level1) Significant Other Observable Inputs (Level2) Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level3) (in millions) Cash and Cash Equivalents $ 10 $ 10 $  $  Equity 1,078 296 782  Fixed Income 919 24 895  Other Investments 38  38  Total assets measured at fair value $ 2,045 $ 330 $ 1,715 $  Fair Value Measurement at October31, 2012 Using October31, 2012 Quoted Prices in Active Markets for Identical Assets (Level1) Significant Other Observable Inputs (Level2) Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level3) (in millions) Cash and Cash Equivalents $ 3 $ 3 $  $  Equity 861 226 635  Fixed Income 900 19 881  Other Investments 37  37  Total assets measured at fair value $ 1,801 $ 248 $ 1,553 $  94 Table of Contents For non-U.S. Defined Benefit Plans, there was no activity relating to assets measured at fair value using significant unobservable inputs (level3) during fiscal year 2013 and 2012 .
The table below presents the combined projected benefit obligation ("PBO"), accumulated benefit obligation ("ABO") and fair value of plan assets, grouping plans using comparisons of the PBO and ABO relative to the plan assets as of October31, 2013 or 2012 .
2013 2012 Benefit Obligation Benefit Obligation Fair Value of Plan Assets Fair Value of Plan Assets PBO PBO (in millions) U.S. defined benefit plans where PBO exceeds the fair value of plan assets $ 15 $  $ 771 $ 654 U.S. defined benefit plans where fair value of plan assets exceeds PBO 748 782   Total $ 763 $ 782 $ 771 $ 654 Non-U.S. defined benefit plans where PBO exceeds or is equal to the fair value of plan assets $ 1,697 $ 1,482 $ 2,117 $ 1,801 Non-U.S. defined benefit plans where fair value of plan assets exceeds PBO 502 563   Total $ 2,199 $ 2,045 $ 2,117 $ 1,801 ABO ABO U.S. defined benefit plans where ABO exceeds the fair value of plan assets $ 14 $  $ 749 $ 654 U.S. defined benefit plans where the fair value of plan assets exceeds ABO 716 782   Total $ 730 $ 782 $ 749 $ 654 Non-U.S. defined benefit plans where ABO exceeds or is equal to the fair value of plan assets $ 1,533 $ 1,380 $ 2,034 $ 1,801 Non-U.S. defined benefit plans where fair value of plan assets exceeds ABO 590 665   Total $ 2,123 $ 2,045 $ 2,034 $ 1,801 Contributions and estimated future benefit payments.
During fiscal year 2014 , we expect to contribute $30 million to the U.S. defined benefit plans, $71 million to plans outside the U.S., and $2 million to the Post-retirement Medical Plans. The following table presents expected future benefit payments for the next 10years.
U.S. Defined Benefit Plans Non-U.S. Defined Benefit Plans U.S. Post-Retirement Benefit Plans (in millions) 2014 $ 41 $ 51 $ 24 2015 $ 44 $ 56 $ 24 2016 $ 49 $ 60 $ 25 2017 $ 56 $ 62 $ 24 2018 $ 57 $ 70 $ 24 2019 - 2023 $ 362 $ 448 $ 116 Assumptions.
The assumptions used to determine the benefit obligations and expense for our defined benefit and post-retirement benefit plans are presented in the tables below. The expected long-term return on assets below represents an estimate of long-term returns on investment portfolios consisting of a mixture of equities, fixed income and alternative investments in proportion to the asset allocations of each of our plans. We consider long-term rates of return, which are weighted based on the asset classes (both historical and forecasted) in which we expect our pension and post-retirement funds to be invested. Discount rates reflect the current rate at which pension and post-retirement obligations could be settled based on the measurement dates of the plans- October31. The U.S. discount rates at October31, 2013 and 2012 were determined based on the results of matching expected plan benefit payments with cash flows from a hypothetically constructed bond portfolio. The non-U.S. rates were generally 95 Table of Contents based on published rates for high-quality corporate bonds. The range of assumptions that were used for the non-U.S. defined benefit plans reflects the different economic environments within various countries.
Assumptions used to calculate the net periodic cost in each year were as follows: For years ended October31, 2013 2012 2011 U.S. defined benefit plans: Discount rate 3.25% 4.50% 5.00% Average increase in compensation levels 3.50% 3.50% 3.50% Expected long-term return on assets 8.00% 8.00% 8.25% Non-U.S. defined benefit plans: Discount rate 1.50-4.50% 2.00-5.50% 2.00-5.25% Average increase in compensation levels 2.50-3.00% 2.50-3.25% 2.50-3.75% Expected long-term return on assets 4.00-6.50% 4.00-6.50% 4.00-6.75% U.S. post-retirement benefits plans: Discount rate 3.50% 4.75% 5.50% Expected long-term return on assets 8.00% 8.00% 8.25% Current medical cost trend rate 9.00% 9.00% 10.00% Ultimate medical cost trend rate 3.50% 4.50% 4.75% Medical cost trend rate decreases to ultimate rate in year 2027 2026 2025 Assumptions used to calculate the benefit obligation were as follows: As of the Years Ending October31, 2013 2012 U.S. defined benefit plans: Discount rate 4.50% 3.25% Average increase in compensation levels 3.50% 3.50% Non-U.S. defined benefit plans: Discount rate 1.75-4.25% 1.50-4.50% Average increase in compensation levels 2.50-3.25% 2.50-3.00% U.S. post-retirement benefits plans: Discount rate 4.25% 3.50% Current medical cost trend rate 9.00% 9.00% Ultimate medical cost trend rate 3.50% 3.50% Medical cost trend rate decreases to ultimate rate in year 2028 2027 Health care trend rates do not have a significant effect on the total service and interest cost components or on the post-retirement benefit obligation amounts reported for the U.S. Post-Retirement Benefit Plan for the year ended October31, 2013 .
16.GUARANTEES Standard Warranty We accrue for standard warranty costs based on historical trends in warranty charges as a percentage of net product shipments. The accrual is reviewed regularly and periodically adjusted to reflect changes in warranty cost estimates. Estimated warranty charges are recorded within cost of products at the time products are sold. The standard warranty accrual balances are held in other accrued and other long-term liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. Our standard warranty terms typically extend between one and three years from the date of delivery, depending on the product.
96 Table of Contents A summary of the standard warranty accrual activity is shown in the table below. The standard warranty accrual balances are held in other accrued and other long-term liabilities.
October 31, 2013 2012 (in millions) Balance as of October31, 2012 and 2011 $ 60 $ 50 Reserve acquired upon close of  Dako acquisition  1 Accruals for warranties including change in estimates 92 87 Settlements made during the period (83 ) (78 ) Balance as of October31, 2013 and 2012 $ 69 $ 60 Accruals for warranties due within one year 48 51 Accruals for warranties due after one year 21 9 Balance as of October31, 2013 and 2012 $ 69 $ 60 Indemnifications to Avago In connection with the sale of our semiconductor products business in December 2005, we agreed to indemnify Avago, its affiliates and other related parties against certain damages and expenses that it might incur in the future. The continuing indemnifications primarily cover damages and expenses relating to liabilities of the businesses that Agilent retained and did not transfer to Avago, as well as pre-closing taxes and other specified items. In our opinion, the fair value of these indemnification obligations was not material as of October31, 2013 .
Indemnifications to Verigy In connection with the spin-off of Verigy, we agreed to indemnify Verigy and its affiliates against certain damages which it might incur in the future. These indemnifications primarily cover damages relating to liabilities of the businesses that Agilent did not transfer to Verigy, liabilities that might arise under limited portions of Verigy's IPO materials that relate to Agilent, and costs and expenses incurred by Agilent or Verigy to effect the IPO, arising out of the distribution of Agilent's remaining holding in Verigy ordinary shares to Agilent's stockholders, or incurred to effect the separation of the semiconductor test solutions business from Agilent to the extent incurred prior to the separation on June1, 2006. On July4, 2011, Verigy announced the completion by Advantest Corporation of its acquisition of Verigy. Verigy will operate as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Advantest and our indemnification obligations to Verigy should be unaffected. In our opinion, the fair value of these indemnification obligations was not material as of October31, 2013 .
Indemnifications to Hewlett-Packard We have given multiple indemnities to Hewlett-Packard in connection with our activities prior to our spin-off from HP for the businesses that constituted Agilent prior to the spin-off. These indemnifications cover a variety of aspects of our business, including, but not limited to, employee, tax, intellectual property and environmental matters. The agreements containing these indemnifications have been previously disclosed as exhibits to our registration statement on FormS-1 filed on August16, 1999. In our opinion, the fair value of these indemnification obligations was not material as of October31, 2013 .
Indemnifications to Varian Medical Systems and Varian Semiconductor Equipment Associates In connection with our acquisition of  Varian, we are subject to certain indemnification obligations to Varian Medical Systems (formerly Varian Associates,Inc. ("VAI")) and Varian Semiconductor Equipment Associates ("VSEA") in connection with the Instruments business as conducted by VAI prior to the Distribution (as described in Note1 of Varian's Annual Report on Form10-K filed on November25, 2009). These indemnification obligations cover a variety of aspects of our business, including, but not limited to, employee, tax, intellectual property, litigation and environmental matters. Certain of the agreements containing these indemnification obligations are disclosed as exhibits to Varian's Annual Report on Form10-K filed on November25, 2009. On November10, 2011, Applied Materials announced that it had completed the acquisition of VSEA, which is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of Applied Materials; our indemnification obligations to VSEA should be unaffected. In our opinion, the fair value of these indemnification obligations was not material as of October31, 2013 .
97 Table of Contents Indemnifications to Officers and Directors Our corporate by-laws require that we indemnify our officers and directors, as well as those who act as directors and officers of other entities at our request, against expenses, judgments, fines, settlements and other amounts actually and reasonably incurred in connection with any proceedings arising out of their services to Agilent and such other entities, including service with respect to employee benefit plans. In addition, we have entered into separate indemnification agreements with each director and each board-appointed officer of Agilent which provide for indemnification of these directors and officers under similar circumstances and under additional circumstances. The indemnification obligations are more fully described in the by-laws and the indemnification agreements. We purchase standard insurance to cover claims or a portion of the claims made against our directors and officers. Since a maximum obligation is not explicitly stated in our by-laws or in our indemnification agreements and will depend on the facts and circumstances that arise out of any future claims, the overall maximum amount of the obligations cannot be reasonably estimated. Historically, we have not made payments related to these obligations, and the fair value for these indemnification obligations was not material as of October31, 2013 .
Other Indemnifications As is customary in our industry and as provided for in local law in the U.S. and other jurisdictions, many of our standard contracts provide remedies to our customers and others with whom we enter into contracts, such as defense, settlement, or payment of judgment for intellectual property claims related to the use of our products. From time to time, we indemnify customers, as well as our suppliers, contractors, lessors, lessees, companies that purchase our businesses or assets and others with whom we enter into contracts, against combinations of loss, expense, or liability arising from various triggering events related to the sale and the use of our products and services, the use of their goods and services, the use of facilities and state of our owned facilities, the state of the assets and businesses that we sell and other matters covered by such contracts, usually up to a specified maximum amount. In addition, from time to time we also provide protection to these parties against claims related to undiscovered liabilities, additional product liability or environmental obligations. In our experience, claims made under such indemnifications are rare and the associated estimated fair value of the liability was not material as of October31, 2013 .
In connection with the sale of several of our businesses, we have agreed to indemnify the buyers of such business, their respective affiliates and other related parties against certain damages that they might incur in the future. The continuing indemnifications primarily cover damages relating to liabilities of the businesses that Agilent retained and did not transfer to the buyers, as well as other specified items. In our opinion, the fair value of these indemnification obligations was not material as of October31, 2013 .
17.COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Operating Lease Commitments: We lease certain real and personal property from unrelated third parties under non-cancelable operating leases. Future minimum lease payments under operating leases at October31, 2013 were $56 million for 2014 , $47 million for 2015 , $31 million for 2016 , $21 million for 2017 , $12 million for 2018 and $6 million thereafter. Future minimum sublease income under leases at October31, 2013 was $6 million for 2014 , $5 million for 2015 , $3 million for 2016 , $2 million for 2017 and zero thereafter. Certain leases require us to pay property taxes, insurance and routine maintenance, and include escalation clauses. Total rent expense was $90 million in 2013 , $84 million in 2012 and $82 million in 2011 .
Contingencies: We are involved in lawsuits, claims, investigations and proceedings, including, but not limited to, patent, commercial and environmental matters, which arise in the ordinary course of business. There are no matters pending that we currently believe are reasonably possible of having a material impact to our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
On March 4, 2013, we made a report to the Inspector General of the Department of Defense (DOD IG) regarding pricing irregularities relating to certain sales of electronic measurement products to U.S. government agencies. We have conducted a thorough investigation with the help of external counsel, and we have approached the DOD IG with a proposed methodology for resolving possible overcharges to U.S. government purchasers resulting from these sales. Based on our investigation and our interactions with the DOD IG, we do not believe that this matter is reasonably possible of having a material impact on Agilent's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. As of October 31, 2013, we have accrued for this matter based on our current understanding.
As part of routine internal audit activities, the Company determined that certain employees of Agilent's subsidiaries in China did not comply with the Company's Standards of Business Conduct and other policies. Based on those findings, the Company has initiated an internal investigation, with the assistance of outside counsel, relating to certain sales of our products through third 98 Table of Contents party intermediaries in China. The internal investigation includes a review of compliance by our employees in China with the requirements of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other applicable laws and regulations. On September 5, 2013, the Company voluntarily contacted the United States Securities and Exchange Commission and United States Department of Justice to advise both agencies of this internal investigation. We will cooperate with any government investigation of this matter. At this point, we cannot predict or estimate the duration, scope, cost, or result of this matter, or whether the government will commence any legal action, which could result in possible fines and penalties, criminal or civil sanctions, or other consequences. Accordingly, no provision with respect to these matters has been made in the Company's consolidated financial statements. Adverse findings or other negative outcomes from any governmental proceedings could have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements in future periods.
18.SHORT-TERM DEBT Credit Facility On October20, 2011 , we entered into a five-year credit agreement, which provides for a $400 million unsecured credit facility that will expire on October20, 2016 . The company may use amounts borrowed under the facility for general corporate purposes. As of October31, 2013 the company has no borrowings outstanding under the facility. We were in compliance with the covenants for the credit facilities during the year ended October31, 2013 .
As a result of the Dako acquisition, we have a credit facility in Danish Krone equivalent of $9 million with a Danish financial institution.  As of October31, 2013 the company had no borrowings outstanding under the facility.
2013 Senior Notes On July13, 2010 , the company issued an aggregate principal amount of $250 million in senior notes ("2013 senior notes").  The 2013 senior notes matured on July15, 2013 and were paid in full.
2012 Senior Notes On September9, 2009 , the company issued an aggregate principal amount of $250 million in senior notes ("2012 senior notes").  The 2012 senior notes matured on September14, 2012 and were paid in full.
19.LONG-TERM DEBT Senior Notes The following table summarizes the company's long-term senior notes and the related interest rate swaps: October31, 2013 October31, 2012 Amortized Principal Swap Total Amortized Principal Swap Total (in millions) 2015 Senior Notes 500 12 512 499 18 517 2017 Senior Notes 599 22 621 599 26 625 2020 Senior Notes 498 26 524 498 29 527 2022 Senior Notes 399  399 399  399 2023 Senior Notes 597  597    Total $ 2,593 $ 60 $ 2,653 $ 1,995 $ 73 $ 2,068 2015 Senior Notes In September 2009 , the company issued an aggregate principal amount of $500 million in senior notes ("2015 senior notes"). The 2015 senior notes were issued at 99.69% of their principal amount. The notes will mature on September14, 2015 , and bear interest at a fixed rate of 5.50% per annum. The interest is payable semi-annually on March14thand September14thof each year, payments commenced on March14, 2010 .
99 Table of Contents On June6, 2011 , we terminated our interest rate swap contracts related to our 2015 senior notes that represented the notional amount of $500 million . The asset value, including interest receivable, upon termination for these contracts was approximately $31 million and the amount to be amortized at October31, 2013 was $12 million . The gain is being deferred and amortized to interest expense over the remaining life of the 2015 senior notes.
2017 Senior Notes In October 2007 , the company issued an aggregate principal amount of $600 million in senior notes ("2017 senior notes"). The 2017 senior notes were issued at 99.60% of their principal amount. The notes will mature on November1, 2017 , and bear interest at a fixed rate of 6.50% per annum. The interest is payable semi-annually on May1stand November1stof each year and payments commenced on May1, 2008 .
On November25, 2008 , we terminated two interest rate swap contracts associated with our 2017 senior notes that represented the notional amount of $400 million . The asset value, including interest receivable, upon termination was approximately $43 million and the amount to be amortized at October31, 2013 was $22 million . The gain is being deferred and amortized to interest expense over the remaining life of the 2017 senior notes.
2020 Senior Notes In July 2010 , the company issued an aggregate principal amount of $500 million in senior notes ("2020 senior notes"). The 2020 senior notes were issued at 99.54% of their principal amount. The notes will mature on July15, 2020 , and bear interest at a fixed rate of 5.00% per annum. The interest is payable semi-annually on January15thand July15thof each year, payments commenced on January15, 2011 .
On August9, 2011 , we terminated our interest rate swap contracts related to our 2020 senior notes that represented the notional amount of $500 million . The asset value, including interest receivable, upon termination for these contracts was approximately $34 million and the amount to be amortized at October31, 2013 was $26 million . The gain is being deferred and amortized to interest expense over the remaining life of the 2020 senior notes.
2022 Senior Notes In September 2012 , the company issued an aggregate principal amount of $400 million in senior notes ("2022 senior notes"). The 2022 senior notes were issued at 99.80% of their principal amount. The notes will mature on October1, 2022 , and bear interest at a fixed rate of 3.20% per annum. The interest is payable semi-annually on April1stand October1stof each year, payments commenced on April1, 2013 .
2023 Senior Notes In June 2013 , the company issued aggregate principal amount of $600 million in senior notes ("2023 senior notes"). The 2023 senior notes were issued at 99.544% of their principal amount. The notes will mature on July15, 2023 and bear interest at a fixed rate of 3.875% per annum. The interest is payable semi annually on January 15th and July 15th of each year and payments will commence January15, 2014 .
All notes issued are unsecured and rank equally in right of payment with all of Agilent's other senior unsecured indebtedness. The company incurred issuance costs of $5 million each in connection with the 2017 and 2023 senior notes and incurred $3 million each in connection with the 2015, 2020 and 2022 senior notes. These costs were capitalized in other assets on the consolidated balance sheet and the costs are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the senior notes.
Other debt As of October31, 2013 , and as a result of the Dako acquisition, we have mortgage debts, secured on buildings in Denmark, in Danish Krone equivalent of $46 million aggregate principal outstanding with a Danish financial institution. The loans have a variable interest rate based on 3 months Copenhagen Interbank Rate ("Cibor") and will mature on September30, 2027 . Interest payments are made in March, June, September and December of each year .
20.STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY Stock Repurchase Program 100 Table of Contents On November19, 2009 our board of directors approved a share-repurchase program to reduce or eliminate dilution of basic outstanding shares in connection with issuances of stock under the company's equity incentive plans (the "2009 repurchase program"). The 2009 repurchase program did not require the company to acquire a specific number of shares and could be suspended or discontinued at any time. There was no fixed termination date for the 2009 repurchase program.
On January16, 2013 , our board of directors terminated the 2009 repurchase program and approved a new share-repurchase program (the "2013 repurchase program"). The 2013 repurchase program authorized the use of up to $500 million to repurchase shares of the company's common stock in open market transactions, inclusive of any amounts repurchased since November 1, 2012.  On May 14, 2013 we announced that our board of directors authorized an increase of $500 million to the 2013 repurchase program bringing the cumulative authorization to $1 billion . Unless terminated earlier by the board of directors, the 2013 repurchase program is designed to cover purchases until the end of the calendar year 2013 and any unused portion may be used in the calendar year 2014 . The 2013 repurchase program does not require the company to acquire a specific number of shares and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. As of October 31, 2013, the remaining amount to be repurchased under the 2013 program is $100 million . We repurchased the remaining $100 million worth of shares under the 2013 repurchase program in November 2013.
For the year ended October31, 2013 , we repurchased 20 million shares for $900 million .   For the year ended October31, 2012 we repurchased approximately 5 million shares for $172 million . For the year ended October31, 2011 we repurchased 12 million shares for $497 million . All such shares and related costs are held as treasury stock and accounted for using the cost method.
On November 22, 2013 we announced that our board of directors has authorized a new share repurchase program effective upon the conclusion of the company's existing $1 billion repurchase program. The new program is designed to reduce or eliminate dilution resulting from issuance of stock under the company's employee equity incentive programs to maintain a weighted average share count of approximately 335 million diluted shares.
Cash Dividends on Shares of Common Stock During the year ended October31, 2013 , cash dividends of $ 0.46 per share, or $156 million were declared and paid on the company's outstanding common stock. During the year ended October31, 2012 , cash dividends of $ 0.30 per share, or $104 million were declared and paid on the company's outstanding common stock. The timing and amounts of any future dividends are subject to determination and approval by our board of directors.
On November 22, 2013 we announced that our board of directors has authorized a 10 percent increase in the quarterly dividend to $0.132 per share. The dividend was declared on November22, 2013 and will be paid on January22, 2014 to all stockholders of record as of close of business on December31, 2013 .
Accumulated other comprehensive income The following table summarizes the components of our accumulated other comprehensive income as of October31, 2013 and 2012, net of tax effect: October 31, 2013 2012 (in millions) Unrealized gain on equity securities, net of $2 of tax expense for 2013 $ 7 $  Foreign currency translation, net of $102of tax expense for 2013 and 2012 425 424 Unrealized losses on defined benefit plans, net of tax benefit of $(64) and $(162) for 2013 and 2012, respectively (341 ) (537 ) Unrealized gains (losses) on derivative instruments, net of tax expense of $2 and $3 for 2013 and 2012, respectively  2 Total accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) $ 91 $ (111 ) 101 Table of Contents 21.SEGMENT INFORMATION Description of segments.
We are a measurement company providing core bio-analytical and electronic measurement solutions to the life sciences, diagnostics and genomics, chemical analysis, communications and electronics industries. In the fourth fiscal quarter of 2013, we formed a new operating segment from our existing businesses. The new life sciences and diagnostics segment was formed by the combination of the life sciences business plus the diagnostics and genomics business. Following this reorganization, Agilent has three business segments comprised of the life sciences and diagnostics business, the chemical analysis business and the electronic measurement business. The historical segment financial information for the life sciences and diagnostics segment has been recast to conform to this new reporting structure in our financial statements. The three operating segments were determined based primarily on how the chief operating decision maker views and evaluates our operations. Operating results are regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and to assess its performance. Other factors, including market separation and customer specific applications, go-to-market channels, products and services and manufacturing are considered in determining the formation of these operating segments.
A description of our three reportable segments is as follows: Our life sciences and diagnostics business provides application-focused solutions that include reagents, instruments, software, consumables, and services that enable customers to identify, quantify and analyze the physical and biological properties of substances and products, as well as enable customers in the clinical and life sciences research areas to interrogate samples at the molecular level. Key product categories include: liquid chromatography systems, columns and components; liquid chromatography mass spectrometry systems; laboratory software and informatics systems; laboratory automation and robotic systems; dissolution testing; nucleic acid solutions; Nuclear Magnetic Resonance, Magnetic Resonance Imaging, and X-Ray Diffraction systems; services and support for the aforementioned products; immunohistochemistry ; In Situ Hybridization; Hematoxylin and Eosin staining; special staining, DNA mutation detection; genotyping; gene copy number determination; identification of gene rearrangements; DNA methylation profiling; gene expression profiling; next generation sequencing target enrichment; and automated gel electrophoresis-based sample analysis systems.We also collaborate with a number of major pharmaceutical companies to develop new potential pharmacodiagnostics, also called companion diagnostics, with the potential of identifying patients most likely to benefit from a specific targeted therapy.
Our chemical analysis business provides application-focused solutions that include instruments, software, consumables, and services that enable customers to identify, quantify and analyze the physical and biological properties of substances and products.  Key product categories in chemical analysis include: gas chromatography (GC) systems, columns and components; gas chromatography mass spectrometry (GC-MS) systems; inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) instruments; atomic absorption (AA) instruments; inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometry (ICP-OES) instruments; molecular spectroscopy instruments; software and data systems; vacuum pumps and measurement technologies; services and support for our products.
Our electronic measurement business provides electronic measurement instruments and systems, software design tools and related services that are used in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment and operation of electronics equipment, and microscopy products. Related services include start-up assistance, instrument productivity and application services and instrument calibration and repair. We also offer customization, consulting and optimization services throughout the customer's product lifecycle.
The historical segment numbers for the life sciences and diagnostics segment has been recast to conform to this new reporting structure in our financial statements.
A significant portion of the segments' expenses arise from shared services and infrastructure that we have historically provided to the segments in order to realize economies of scale and to efficiently use resources. These expenses, collectively called corporate charges, include costs of centralized research and development, legal, accounting, real estate, insurance services, information technology services, treasury and other corporate infrastructure expenses. Charges are allocated to the segments, and the allocations have been determined on a basis that we consider to be a reasonable reflection of the utilization of services provided to or benefits received by the segments. Beginning in fiscal year 2012, we created the Agilent Order Fulfillment ("AOF") organization to centralize all order fulfillment and supply organizations and operations.  AOF provides resources for manufacturing, engineering, strategic sourcing and logistics to life sciences, chemical analysis and electronic measurement businesses. In general, AOF employees are dedicated to specific businesses and the associated costs are directly allocated to businesses.
The following tables reflect the results of our reportable segments under our management reporting system. These results are not necessarily in conformity with U.S.GAAP. The performance of each segment is measured based on several metrics, 102 Table of Contents including adjusted income from operations. These results are used, in part, by the chief operating decision maker in evaluating the performance of, and in allocating resources to, each of the segments.
The profitability of each of the segments is measured after excluding restructuring and asset impairment charges, investment gains and losses, interest income, interest expense, acquisition and integration costs, one-time and pre-separation costs, non-cash amortization and other items as noted in the reconciliations below.
Life Sciences and Diagnostics Chemical Analysis Electronic Measurement Total Segments (in millions) Year ended October 31, 2013: Total net revenue $ 2,300 $ 1,594 $ 2,888 $ 6,782 Income from operations $ 377 $ 355 $ 544 $ 1,276 Depreciation expense $ 71 $ 27 $ 83 $ 181 Share-based compensation expense $ 26 $ 21 $ 38 $ 85 Year ended October 31, 2012: Total net revenue $ 1,984 $ 1,559 $ 3,315 $ 6,858 Income from operations $ 295 $ 338 $ 751 $ 1,384 Depreciation expense $ 57 $ 31 $ 83 $ 171 Share-based compensation expense $ 21 $ 18 $ 37 $ 76 Year ended October31, 2011: Total segment revenue $ 1,792 $ 1,518 $ 3,316 $ 6,626 Varian acquisition deferred revenue fair value adjustment $ (4 ) $ (7 )  $ (11 ) Total net revenue $ 1,788 $ 1,511 $ 3,316 $ 6,615 Income from operations $ 237 $ 313 $ 760 $ 1,310 Depreciation expense $ 39 $ 28 $ 75 $ 142 Share-based compensation expense $ 20 $ 17 $ 36 $ 73 The following table reconciles reportable segments' income from operations to Agilent's total enterprise income before taxes: Years Ended October31, 2013 2012 2011 (in millions) Total reportable segments' income from operations $ 1,276 $ 1,384 $ 1,310 Restructuring related costs (53 )  (2 ) Acceleration of depreciation for held and used assets  (15 )  Asset Impairments (3 ) (1 ) (9 ) Transformational programs (19 ) (25 ) (51 ) Amortization of intangibles (199 ) (136 ) (113 ) Acquisition and integration costs (29 ) (74 ) (54 ) Acceleration of share-based compensation expense related to workforce reduction (3 )   One-time and pre-separation costs (5 )   Varian acquisition related fair value adjustments   (9 ) Other (14 ) (14 ) (1 ) Interest Income 7 9 14 Interest Expense (107 ) (101 ) (86 ) Other income (expense), net 8 16 33 Income before taxes, as reported $ 859 $ 1,043 $ 1,032 Major customers.
No customer represented 10 percent or more of our total net revenue in 2013 , 2012 or 2011 .
103 Table of Contents The following table presents assets and capital expenditures directly managed by each segment. Unallocated assets primarily consist of cash, cash equivalents, accumulated amortization of other intangibles and other assets.
Life Sciences and Diagnostics Chemical Analysis Electronic Measurement Total Segments (in millions) As of October31, 2013: Assets $ 4,291 $ 1,756 $ 1,997 $ 8,044 Capital expenditures $ 77 $ 30 $ 88 $ 195 As of October31, 2012: Assets $ 4,072 $ 1,768 $ 2,157 $ 7,997 Capital expenditures $ 56 $ 32 $ 106 $ 194 The following table reconciles segment assets to Agilent's total assets: October31, 2013 2012 (in millions) Total reportable segments' assets $ 8,044 $ 7,997 Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments 2,675 2,351 Prepaid expenses 198 128 Investments 139 109 Long-term and other receivables 162 161 Other (532 ) (210 ) Total assets $ 10,686 $ 10,536 The other category primarily represents the difference between how segments report deferred taxes and intangible assets at the initial purchased amount.
The following table presents summarized information for net revenue and long-lived assets by geographic region. Revenues from external customers are generally attributed to countries based upon the location of the Agilent sales representative. Long lived assets consist of property, plant, and equipment, long-term receivables and other long-term assets excluding intangible assets. The rest of the world primarily consists of rest of Asia and Europe.
United States China Japan Rest of the World Total (in millions) Net revenue: Year ended October 31, 2013 $ 2,043 $ 1,131 $ 628 $ 2,980 $ 6,782 Year ended October 31, 2012 $ 2,218 $ 1,078 $ 716 $ 2,846 $ 6,858 Year ended October 31, 2011 $ 2,016 $ 1,035 $ 700 $ 2,864 $ 6,615 United States Japan Rest of the World Total (in millions) Long-lived assets: October31, 2013 $ 601 $ 130 $ 715 $ 1,446 October 31, 2012 $ 550 $ 167 $ 645 $ 1,362 104 Table of Contents QUARTERLY SUMMARY (Unaudited) Three Months Ended January31, April30, July31, October31, (in millions, except per share data) 2013 Net revenue $ 1,680 $ 1,732 $ 1,652 $ 1,718 Gross profit 880 891 856 908 Income from operations 217 213 236 285 Net income $ 179 $ 166 $ 168 $ 211 Net income per share Basic: $ 0.52 $ 0.48 $ 0.50 $ 0.64 Net income per share Diluted: $ 0.51 $ 0.48 $ 0.49 $ 0.63 Weighted average shares used in computing net income per share: Basic 347 345 339 331 Diluted 352 349 343 336 Cash dividends per common share $ 0.22 $  $ 0.12 $ 0.12 Range of stock prices on NYSE $ 35.45-45.55 $ 40.19-45.66 $ 41.24-47.47 $ 45.32-53.47 2012 (1) Net revenue $ 1,635 $ 1,733 $ 1,723 $ 1,767 Gross profit 874 918 890 922 Income from operations 271 300 270 278 Net income $ 230 $ 255 $ 243 $ 425 Net income per share Basic: $ 0.66 $ 0.73 $ 0.70 $ 1.22 Net income per share Diluted: $ 0.65 $ 0.72 $ 0.69 $ 1.20 Weighted average shares used in computing net income per share: Basic 348 348 348 348 Diluted 352 354 353 353 Cash dividends per common share $ 0.10 $  $ 0.10 $ 0.10 Range of stock prices on NYSE $ 32.51-44.85 $ 39.15-46.28 $ 35.32-43.27 $ 35.38-40.97 (1) Consolidated financial data includes Dako acquired, acquired on June 21, 2012, and non-recurring tax benefit relating to the U.S. valuation allowance reversal in the fourth quarter of 2012 of $280 million.
105 Table of Contents Item9.
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure None.
Item9A.
Controls and Procedures Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures Our management has evaluated, under the supervision and with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of October31, 2013, pursuant to and as required by Rule13a-15(b) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act). Based on that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that, as of October31, 2013, the company's disclosure controls and procedures, as defined by Rule13a-15(e) under the Exchange Act, were effective and designed to ensure that (i)information required to be disclosed in the company's reports filed under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms, and (ii)information is accumulated and communicated to management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures.
Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule13a-15(f). Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control- Integrated Framework (1992) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on the results of this evaluation, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of October31, 2013.
The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of October31, 2013 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopersLLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears in Item8 of this Annual Report on Form10-K.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during Agilent's last fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Item9B.
Other Information None.
106 Table of Contents PART III Item10.
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Information regarding our directors appears under Proposal No.1- Election of Directors in our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders (Proxy Statement), to be held March19, 2014. That portion of the Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference into this report. Information regarding our executive officers appears in Item1 of this report under Executive Officers of the Registrant. Information regarding our Audit and Finance Committee and our Audit and Finance Committee's financial expert appears under Audit and Finance Committee Report and Board Structure and Compensation in our Proxy Statement. That portion of the Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference into this report.
There were no material changes to the procedures by which security holders may recommend nominees to our Board of Directors. Information regarding our code of ethics (the company's Standards of Business Conduct) applicable to our principal executive officer, our principal financial officer, our controller and other senior financial officers appears in Item1 of this report under Investor Information. We will post amendments to or waivers from a provision of the Standards of Business Conduct with respect to those persons on our website at www.investor.agilent.com.
Compliance with Section16(a) of the Exchange Act Information about compliance with Section16(a) of the Exchange Act appears under Section16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance in the Proxy Statement. That portion of the Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference into this report.
Item11.
Executive Compensation Information about compensation of our named executive officers appears under Executive Compensation, Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation in the Proxy Statement. Information about compensation of our directors appears under Director Compensation and Compensation Committee Report and Stock Ownership Guidelines in the Proxy Statement. Those portions of the Proxy Statement are incorporated by reference into this report.
Item12.
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Information about security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management appears under "Common Stock Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management" in the Proxy Statement. That portion of the Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference into this report.
EQUITY COMPENSATION PLAN INFORMATION The following table summarizes information about our equity compensation plans as of October31, 2013 . All outstanding awards relate to our common stock.
Plan Category Number of Securities to be Issued upon Exercise of Outstanding Options, Warrants and Rights Weighted-average Exercise Price of Outstanding Options, Warrants and Rights Number of Securities Remaining Available for Future Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans (Excluding Securities Reflected in Column (a)) (a) (b) (c) Equity compensation plans approved by security holders (1)(2)(3) 13,155,214 $ 32 50,231,877 Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders    Total 13,155,214 $ 32 50,231,877 (1) The number of securities remaining available for future issuance in column (c)includes 37,709,692 shares of common stock authorized and available for issuance under the Agilent Technologies,Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan ("423(b) Plan"). The number of shares authorized for issuance under the 423(b) Plan is subject to an automatic annual increase of the lesser of one percent of the outstanding common stock of Agilent or an amount determined by the Compensation 107 Committee of our Board of Directors. Under the terms of the 423(b) Plan, in no event shall the aggregate number of shares issued under the Plan exceed 75 million shares. The number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights in column (a)does not include shares of common stock issued to participants in consideration of the aggregate participant contributions under the 423(b) Plan totaling $23 million as of October31, 2013 .
(2) We issue securities under our equity compensation plans in forms other than options, warrants or rights. On November19, 2008 and March11, 2009, the Board and the stockholders, respectively, approved the Agilent Technologies,Inc. 2009 Stock Plan ("2009 Plan") to replace the company's 1999 Plan and 1999 Non-Employee Director Stock Plan for awards of stock-based incentive compensation to our employees (including officers), directors and consultants. The 2009 Plan provides for the grant of awards in the form of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance shares and performance units with performance-based conditions to vesting or exercisability, and cash awards. The 2009 Plan has a term of ten years.
(3) We issue securities under our equity compensation plans in forms which do not require a payment by the recipient to us at the time of exercise or vesting, including restricted stock, restricted stock units and performance units. Accordingly, the weighted-average exercise price in column (b)does not take these awards into account.
Item13.
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence Information about certain relationships and related transactions appears under "Related Person Transaction Policy and Procedures" in the Proxy Statement. Information about director independence appears under the heading "Board Structure and Compensation Director Independence" in the Proxy Statement. Each of those portions of the Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference into this report.
Item14.
Principal Accounting Fees and Services Information about principal accountant fees and services as well as related pre-approval policies appears under "Fees Paid to PricewaterhouseCoopers" and "Policy on Audit and Finance Committee Preapproval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services of Independent Registered Auditors" in the Proxy Statement. Those portions of the Proxy Statement are incorporated by reference into this report.
PART IV Item15.Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules (a) The following documents are filed as part of this report: 1.
Financial Statements.
See Index to Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8 on Page 53 of this report.
2.
Financial Statement Schedule.
The following additional financial statement schedule should be considered in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements. All other schedules have been omitted because the required information is either not applicable or not sufficiently material to require submission of the schedule: SCHEDULE II SCHEDULE II VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS Column A Column B Column C Column D Column E Description Balance at Beginning of Period Additions Charged to Expenses or Other Accounts* Deductions Credited to Expenses or Other Accounts** Balance at End of Period (in millions) 2013 Tax valuation allowance $ 93 $  $ (8 ) $ 85 2012 Tax valuation allowance $ 369 $ 4 $ (280 ) $ 93 2011 Tax valuation allowance $ 527 $ 3 $ (161 ) $ 369 * Additions include current year additions charged to expenses and current year build due to increases in net deferred tax      assets, return to provision true-ups, other adjustments and OCI impact to deferred taxes.
** Deductions include current year releases credited to expenses and current year reductions due to decreases in net deferred tax assets, return to provision true-ups, other adjustments and OCI impact to deferred taxes. For 2012, the amount reflects the reversal of the valuation allowance for most of our U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets since management concluded that it is more likely than not that these deferred tax assets will be realized primarily due to the emergence from cumulative losses in recent years, the return to sustainable U.S. operating profits and the expectation of sustainable profitability in future periods.
108 Table of Contents 3.
Exhibits.
Exhibits are incorporated herein by reference or are filed with this report as indicated below (numbered in accordance with Item601 of RegulationS-K): Incorporation by Reference Exhibit Number Description Form Date Exhibit Number Filed Herewith 2.1 Master Separation and Distribution Agreement between HewlettPackard and Agilent Technologies,Inc., effective as of August12, 1999.
S-1/A 11/10/1999 2.1 2.2 General Assignment and Assumption Agreement between HewlettPackard and Agilent Technologies,Inc.
S-1/A 11/10/1999 2.2 2.3 Master Technology Ownership and License Agreement between HewlettPackard and Agilent Technologies,Inc.
S-1/A 11/10/1999 2.3 2.4 Master Patent Ownership and License Agreement between HewlettPackard and Agilent Technologies,Inc.
S-1/A 11/10/1999 2.4 2.5 Master Trademark Ownership and License Agreement between HewlettPackard and Agilent Technologies,Inc.
S-1/A 11/10/1999 2.5 2.6 ICBD Technology Ownership and License Agreement between HewlettPackard and Agilent Technologies,Inc.
S-1/A 11/10/1999 2.6 2.7 Employee Matters Agreement between HewlettPackard and Agilent Technologies,Inc.
S-1/A 11/10/1999 2.7 2.8 Tax Sharing Agreement between HewlettPackard and Agilent Technologies,Inc.
S-1/A 11/10/1999 2.8 2.9 Master IT Service Level Agreement between HewlettPackard and Agilent Technologies,Inc.
S-1/A 11/10/1999 2.9 2.10 Real Estate Matters Agreement between HewlettPackard and Agilent Technologies,Inc.
S-1/A 11/10/1999 2.10 2.11 Environmental Matters Agreement between HewlettPackard and Agilent Technologies,Inc.
S-1/A 11/10/1999 2.11 2.12 Master Confidential Disclosure Agreement between HewlettPackard and Agilent Technologies,Inc.
S-1/A 11/10/1999 2.12 2.13 Indemnification and Insurance Matters Agreement between HewlettPackard and Agilent Technologies,Inc.
S-1/A 11/10/1999 2.13 2.14 Non U.S. Plan.
S-1/A 11/10/1999 2.14 2.15 Share Purchase Agreement, dated as of August12, 2005, by and among Agilent Technologies,Inc. and Agilent LED International, Philips Lumileds HoldingB.V. and Koninklijke Philips ElectronicsN.V.
8-K 8/15/2005 2.2 2.16 Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of July26, 2009, by and among Agilent Technologies,Inc., Cobalt Acquisition Corp. and Varian,Inc.
10-Q 9/4/2009 2.1 2.17 Asset Purchase Agreement, dated February10, 2010, by and between Agilent Technologies,Inc. and JDS Uniphase Corporation (pursuant to Item601(b)(2) of RegulationS-K, schedules to the Asset Purchase Agreement have been omitted; they will be supplementally provided to the SEC upon request) 10-Q 3/10/2010 2.1 3.1 Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation.
S-1 8/16/1999 3.1 3.2 Amended and Restated Bylaws.
8-K 11/20/2012 3.1 4.1 Preferred Stock Rights Agreement between Agilent Technologies,Inc. and Harris Trust and Savings Bank dated as of May12, 2000.
8-A12B/A 5/24/2000 1 109 Table of Contents Incorporation by Reference Exhibit Number Description Form Date Exhibit Number Filed Herewith 4.2 Registration Rights Agreement between Agilent Technologies,Inc. and Credit Suisse First Boston Corporation, J.P. Morgan Securities,Inc. and Salomon Smith Barney, Inc. dated November27, 2001.
8-K 11/27/2001 99.3 4.3 Indenture, dated October24, 2007, between Agilent Technologies,Inc. and the trustee for the debt securities.
S-3ASR 10/24/2007 4.01 4.4 Form of First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of October29, 2007, between Agilent Technologies,Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association and Form of Global Note for Agilent Technologies,Inc. 6.50% Senior Notes due 2017.
8-K 10/26/2007 4.01 4.5 Form of Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September14, 2009, between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association and Form of Global Note for Agilent Technologies,Inc. 5.50% Senior Notes due 2015.
8-K 9/14/2009 4.02 4.6 Fifth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July20, 2010, between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association and Form of Global Note for the Company's 5.00% Senior Notes due 2020.
8-K 7/20/2010 4.02 4.7 Sixth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September 13, 2012, between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association 8-K 9/13/2012 4.01 4.8 Form of Global Note for the Company's 3.20% Senior Notes due 2022 (contained in Exhibit 4.01) 8-K 9/13/2012 4.02 4.9 Seventh Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 21, 2013, between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association and Form of Global Note for the Companys 3.875% Senior Notes due 2023.
8-K 6/21/2013 4.01 10.1 Agilent Technologies,Inc. 1999 Stock Plan (Amendment and Restatement Effective November14, 2006).* 10-K 12/22/2006 10.8 10.2 Form of Award Agreement (U.S.) for grants under the Agilent Technologies,Inc. 1999 Stock Plan.* 8-K 11/12/2004 10.1 10.3 Form of Award Agreement (Non-U.S.) for grants under the Agilent Technologies,Inc. 1999 Stock Plan.* 8-K 11/12/2004 10.2 10.4 Form of Award Agreement (SAR) for grants under the Agilent Technologies,Inc. 1999 Stock Plan.* 10-K 12/21/2004 10.37 10.5 Form of Award Agreement (restricted stock) for grants under the Agilent Technologies,Inc. 1999 Stock Plan.* 10-K 12/21/2004 10.39 10.6 Agilent Technologies,Inc. 1999 Stock Plan Stock Award Agreement For Standard Awards Granted to Employees.* 10-Q 6/5/2007 10.3 10.7 Agilent Technologies,Inc. 1999 Stock Plan Stock Award Agreement Under The Long-Term Performance Program.* 10-Q 6/5/2007 10.7 10.8 Form of Amendment to the Form of Standard Long-Term Performance Program Award Agreement for awards granted under the Agilent Technologies,Inc. Stock Plan during FY07-09 and FY 08-10.* 10-K 12/19/2008 10.22 10.9 Form of Standard Long-Term Performance Program Award Agreement for awards granted under the Agilent Technologies,Inc. 1999 Stock Plan.* 10-K 12/19/2008 10.23 110 Table of Contents Incorporation by Reference Exhibit Number Description Form Date Exhibit Number Filed Herewith 10.10 Form of Standard Stock Award Agreement for Restricted Stock Units granted under the Agilent Technologies,Inc. 1999 Stock Plan.* 10-K 12/19/2008 10.24 10.11 Form of Stock Award Agreement for awards granted to New Executives under the Agilent Technologies,Inc. 1999 Stock Plan.* 10-K 12/19/2008 10.25 10.12 Agilent Technologies,Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan (Amended and Restated, effective November1, 2008).* 10-Q 9/5/2008 10.1 10.13 Agilent Technologies,Inc. 1999 Non-Employee Director Stock Plan (Amended and Restated Effective November14, 2007).* 10-K 12/21/2007 10.23 10.14 Form of Stock Option Agreement for grants under the Agilent Technologies,Inc. 1999 Non-Employee Director Stock Plan.* 8-K 11/12/2004 10.3 10.15 Form of Stock Option Award Agreement for grants under the Agilent Technologies,Inc. 1999 Non-Employee Director Stock Plan.* 10-Q 9/5/2008 10.2 10.16 Agilent Technologies,Inc. 2009 Stock Plan.* DEF14A 1/27/2009 AppendixA 10.17 Form of Stock Option Award Agreement under the 2009 Stock Plan for U.S. Employees (for awards made after October31, 2010).* 10K 12/20/2010 10.17 10.18 Form of Stock Option Award Agreement under the 2009 Stock Plan for U.S. Employees.* 10-K 12/21/2009 10.31 10.19 Form of Stock Option Award Agreement under the 2009 Stock Plan for non-U.S. Employees (for awards made after October31, 2010).* 10K 12/20/2010 10.19 10.20 Form of Stock Option Award Agreement under the 2009 Stock Plan for non-U.S. Employees.* 10-K 12/21/2009 10.32 10.21 Form of Stock Award Agreement for Standard Awards granted to Employees (for awards made after October31, 2010).* 10K 12/20/2010 10.21 10.22 Form of Stock Award Agreement for Standard Awards granted to Employees.* 10-K 12/21/2009 10.33 10.23 Form of New Executive Stock Award Agreement under the 2009 Stock Plan.* 8-K 3/25/2009 10.4 10.24 Form of Non-Employee Director Stock Option Award Agreement under the 2009 Stock Plan.* 8-K 3/25/2009 10.5 10.25 Form of Long-Term Performance Program Stock Award Agreement under the 2009 Stock Plan.* 10-K 12/21/2009 10.36 10.26 Agilent Technologies,Inc. Supplemental Benefit Retirement Plan (Amended and Restated Effective January1, 2005).* 10-K 12/21/2007 10.25 10.27 Agilent Technologies,Inc. Long-Term Performance Program (Amended and Restated through November1, 2005).* 10-Q 3/9/2006 10.63 10.28 Agilent Technologies,Inc. 2005 Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (Amended and Restated Effective November18, 2009).* 10-K 12/21/2009 10.39 10.29 Agilent Technologies,Inc. 2005 Deferred Compensation Plan (Amended and Restated Effective January1, 2011).* 10K 12/20/2010 10.29 10.30 Agilent Technologies,Inc. 2005 Deferred Compensation Plan (Amended and Restated Effective October28, 2009).* 10-K 12/21/2009 10.40 10.31 Agilent Technologies,Inc. 2010 PerformanceBased Compensation Plan for Covered Employees.
10K 12/20/2010 10.31 111 Table of Contents Incorporation by Reference Exhibit Number Description Form Date Exhibit Number Filed Herewith 10.32 Agilent Technologies,Inc. PerformanceBased Compensation Plan for Covered Employees (Amended and Restated December18, 2008).* 10-K 12/19/2008 10.34 10.33 Form of Indemnification Agreement entered into by Agilent Technologies,Inc. with each of its directors and boardappointed officers.* S-1 8/16/1999 10.9 10.34 Form of Amended and Restated Indemnification Agreement between Agilent Technologies,Inc. and Directors of the Company, Section16 Officers and Boardelected Officers of the Company.* 8-K 4/10/2008 10.1 10.35 Form of Amended and Restated Change of Control Severance Agreement between Agilent Technologies,Inc. and the Chief Executive Officer.* 8-K 4/10/2008 10.2 10.36 Form of Amended and Restated Change of Control Severance Agreement between Agilent Technologies,Inc. and Section16 Officers (other than the Company's Chief Executive Officer).* 8-K 4/10/2008 10.3 10.37 Form of Amended and Restated Change of Control Severance Agreement between Agilent Technologies,Inc. and specified executives of the Company.* 8-K 4/10/2008 10.4 10.38 Form of New Section16 Officer Change of Control Severance Agreement between Agilent Technologies,Inc. and Section16 Officers (other than the Company's Chief Executive Officer) (for executives hired, elected or promoted after July14, 2009).* 8-K 9/28/2009 10.1 10.39 Form of New Executive Officer Change of Control Severance Agreement between Agilent Technologies,Inc. and specified executives of the Company (for executives hired, elected or promoted after July14, 2009).* 10-K 12/21/2009 10.50 10.40 Form of Change of Control Severance Agreement between Agilent Technologies,Inc. and certain other executive officers.* 10-K 12/21/2007 10.79 10.41 Master Separation and Distribution Agreement between Agilent Technologies,Inc. and VerigyLtd., dated as of May31, 2006.
10-Q 6/6/2006 10.66 10.42 General Assignment and Assumption Agreement between Agilent Technologies,Inc. and VerigyLtd., dated as of June1, 2006.
10-Q 6/6/2006 10.67 10.43 Intellectual Property Matters Agreement between Agilent Technologies,Inc., VerigyLtd., and Verigy (Singapore) Pte.Ltd., dated as of June1, 2006.
10-Q 6/6/2006 10.68 10.44 Tax Sharing Agreement by and between Agilent Technologies,Inc. and VerigyLtd., dated as of June1, 2006.
10-Q 6/6/2006 10.70 10.45 Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated October20, 2011, by and among Agilent Technologies,Inc., the Lenders party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administration Agent and J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as London Agent.
8-K 10/25/2011 10.1 10.46 Underwriting Agreement, dated October24, 2007, by and among Agilent Technologies,Inc., Citigroup Global MarketsInc. and J.P. Morgan SecuritiesInc., on behalf of the several underwriters named therein.
8-K 10/26/2007 1.01 10.47 Underwriting Agreement, dated September9, 2009, by and among the Company, Barclays CapitalInc., Citigroup Global MarketsInc. and Credit Suisse Securities (USA)LLC, on behalf of the several underwriters named therein.
8-K 9/14/2009 1.01 112 Table of Contents Incorporation by Reference Exhibit Number Description Form Date Exhibit Number Filed Herewith 10.48 Underwriting Agreement, dated July13, 2010, by and among the Company, Banc of America SecuritiesLLC, Barclays CapitalInc. and Credit Suisse Securities (USA)LLC, on behalf of the several underwriters named therein.
8-K 7/19/2010 1.01 10.49 Underwriting Agreement, dated September 10, 2012, by and among the Company, Barclays Capital Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, on behalf of the several underwriters named therein 8-K 9/13/2012 1.01 10.50 Underwriting Agreement, dated June 21, 2013, by and among the Company, BNP Paribas Securities Corp., Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner& Smith Incorporated, on behalf of the several underwriters named therein.
8-K 6/21/2013 1.01 10.51 Share Purchase Agreement by and among Delphi S.a.r.l., Agilent Technologies Europe B.V. and Agilent Technologies,Inc., dated May16, 2012.
8-K 5/22/2012 10.1 10.52 Separation Agreement and General Release, effective as of November 7, 2013 by and between Nicolas Roelofs and the Company.
8-K 11/13/2013 10.1 10.53 Executive Service Contract - Chief Executive Officer, by and among Dako Denmark A/S, Dako A/S and Lars Holmkvist* X 10.54 Bonus Retention Agreement by and between the Company and Lars Holmkvist* X 11.1 See Note6, Net Income Per Share, to our Consolidated Financial Statements on page78.
X 12.1 Computation of ratio of earnings to fixed charges.
X 14.1 See Investor Information in Item1: Business on page3 of this Annual Report on Form10-K.
X 21.1 Significant subsidiaries of Agilent Technologies,Inc. as of October31, 2012.
X 23.1 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.
X 24.1 Powers of Attorney. Contained in the signature page of this Annual Report on Form10-K.
X 31.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section302 of the SarbanesOxley Act of 2002.
X 31.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section302 of the SarbanesOxley Act of 2002.
X 32.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section906 of the SarbanesOxley Act of 2002.
X 32.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section906 of the SarbanesOxley Act of 2002.
X 101.INS XBRL Instance Document.
X 101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.
X 101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.
X 101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.
X 101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document.
X 101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document.
X * Indicates management contract or compensatory plan, contract or arrangement.
113 Table of Contents SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of Section13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES,INC.
BY /s/MARIE OH HUBER Marie Oh Huber Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Date: December19, 2013 114 Table of Contents POWER OF ATTORNEY KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Marie Oh Huber, Stephen D. Williams and Michael Tang, or any of them, his or her attorneys-in-fact, for such person in any and all capacities, to sign any amendments to this report and to file the same, with exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that any of said attorneys-in-fact, or substitute or substitutes, may do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
Signature Title Date /s/ WILLIAM P. SULLIVAN Director, President and Chief Executive Officer December19, 2013 William P. Sullivan (Principal Executive Officer) /s/ DIDIER HIRSCH Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer December19, 2013 Didier Hirsch (Principal Financial Officer) /s/ SOLANGE GLAIZE Vice President, Corporate Controllership December19, 2013 Solange Glaize (Principal Accounting Officer) /s/ JAMES G. CULLEN Chairman of the Board of Directors December19, 2013 James G. Cullen /s/ PAUL N. CLARK Director December19, 2013 Paul N. Clark /s/ HEIDI FIELDS Director December19, 2013 Heidi Fields /s/ ROBERT J. HERBOLD Director December19, 2013 Robert J. Herbold /s/ KOH BOON HWEE Director December19, 2013 Koh Boon Hwee /s/ DAVID M. LAWRENCE, M.D.
Director December19, 2013 David M. Lawrence, M.D.
/s/ A. BARRY RAND Director December19, 2013 A. Barry Rand /s/ TADATAKA YAMADA, M.D.
Director December19, 2013 Tadataka Yamada, M.D.