http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1037868/000119312517053600/d309462d10k.htm
10800000000.0
AME
2017-02-23
10-K
AME_2017-02-23_10-K.txt

10-K 1 d309462d10k.htm FORM 10-K Form 10-K Table of Contents UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 10-K (Mark One)  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)OFTHE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 For the fiscal year ended December31, 2016 OR  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OFTHESECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 For the transition period from to Commission File Number 1-12981 AMETEK,Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 14-1682544 (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization) (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) 1100 Cassatt Road Berwyn, Pennsylvania 19312-1177 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Registrants telephone number, including area code: (610)647-2121 Securities registered pursuant to Section12(b) of the Act: Title of each class Name of each exchange on which registered Common Stock, $0.01 Par Value (voting) New York Stock Exchange Securities registered pursuant to Section12(g) of the Act: None (Title of Class) Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.YesNo Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section13 or 15(d) of the Act.YesNo Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1)has filed all reports required to be filed by Section13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2)has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90days.YesNo Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).YesNo Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item405 of Regulation S-K (229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrants knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of large accelerated filer, accelerated filer and smaller reporting company in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
Large accelerated filer Accelerated filer Non-accelerated filer Smallerreportingcompany (Do not check if a smaller reporting company) Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule12b-2 of the Act). YesNo The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $10.8billion as of June30, 2016, the last business day of the registrants most recently completed second fiscal quarter.
The number of shares of the registrants Common Stock outstanding as of January31, 2017 was 229,472,920.
Documents Incorporated by Reference Part III incorporates information by reference from the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders on May9, 2017.
Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
2016 Form 10-K Annual Report Table of Contents Page PART I Item 1.
Business 2 Item 1A.
Risk Factors 10 Item 1B.
Unresolved Staff Comments 16 Item 2.
Properties 17 Item 3.
Legal Proceedings 17 PART II Item 5.
Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 18 Item 6.
Selected Financial Data 21 Item 7.
Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 23 Item 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 45 Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 46 Item 9.
Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 93 Item 9A.
Controls and Procedures 93 Item9B.
Other Information 93 PART III Item 10.
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 93 Item 11.
Executive Compensation 94 Item 12.
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 94 Item 13.
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 94 Item14.
Principal Accounting Fees and Services 94 PART IV Item 15.
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 95 SIGNATURES 96 Index to Exhibits 98 1 Table of Contents PART I Item1.
Business General Development of Business AMETEK, Inc. (AMETEK or the Company) is incorporated in Delaware. Its predecessor was originally incorporated in Delaware in 1930 under the name American Machine and Metals, Inc. AMETEK is a leading global manufacturer of electronic instruments and electromechanical devices with operations in North America, Europe, Asia and South America. AMETEK maintains its principal executive offices in suburban Philadelphia at 1100Cassatt Road, Berwyn, Pennsylvania, 19312. Listed on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol:AME), the common stock of AMETEK is a component of the Standard and Poors500 and the Russell1000 Indices.
Website Access to Information AMETEKs annual report on Form10-K, quarterly reports on Form10-Q, current reports on Form8-K and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are made available free of charge on the Companys website at www.ametek.com in the InvestorsFinancial News and Information section as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. AMETEK has posted free of charge on the investor information portion of its website its corporate governance guidelines, Board committee charters and codes of ethics. Those documents also are available in published form free of charge to any stockholder who requests them by writing to the Investor Relations Department at AMETEK, Inc., 1100Cassatt Road, Berwyn, Pennsylvania, 19312.
Products and Services AMETEKs products are marketed and sold worldwide through two operating groups: Electronic Instruments (EIG) and Electromechanical (EMG). Electronic Instruments is a leader in the design and manufacture of advanced instruments for the process, power and industrial, and aerospace markets. Electromechanical is a differentiated supplier of precision motion control solutions, thermal management systems, specialty metals and electrical interconnects. Its end markets include aerospace and defense, medical, automation, mass transit, petrochemical and other industrial markets.
Competitive Strengths Management believes AMETEK has significant competitive advantages that help strengthen and sustain its market positions. Those advantages include: Significant Market Share .AMETEK maintains significant market share in a number of targeted niche markets through its ability to produce and deliver high-quality products at competitive prices. EIG has significant market positions in niche segments of the process, power and industrial, and aerospace markets. EMG holds significant positions in niche segments of the aerospace and defense, precision motion control, automation, medical and mass transit markets.
Technological and Development Capabilities .AMETEK believes it has certain technological advantages over its competitors that allow it to maintain its leading market positions. Historically, it has demonstrated an ability to develop innovative new products that anticipate customer needs and to bring them to market successfully. It has consistently added to its investment in research, development and engineering and improved its new product development efforts with the adoption of Design for Six Sigma and Value Analysis/Value Engineering methodologies. These have improved the pace and quality of product innovation and resulted in the introduction of a steady stream of new products across all of AMETEKs lines of business.
2 Table of Contents Efficient and Low-Cost Manufacturing Operations.
Through its Operational Excellence initiatives, AMETEK has established a lean manufacturing platform for its businesses. In its effort to achieve best-cost manufacturing, AMETEK has established plants in Brazil, China, the Czech Republic, Malaysia, Mexico, and Serbia. These plants offer proximity to customers and provide opportunities for increasing international sales. Acquisitions also have allowed AMETEK to reduce costs and achieve operating synergies by consolidating operations, product lines and distribution channels, benefitting both of AMETEKs operating groups.
Experienced Management Team . Another component of AMETEKs success is the strength of its management team and that teams commitment to improving Company performance. AMETEK senior management has extensive industry experience and an average of approximately 24years of AMETEK service. The management team is focused on achieving results, building stockholder value and continually growing AMETEK. Individual performance is tied to financial results through Company-established stock ownership guidelines and equity incentive programs.
Business Strategy AMETEK is committed to achieving earnings growth through the successful implementation of a Corporate Growth Plan. The goal of that plan is double-digit annual percentage growth in earnings per share over the business cycle and a superior return on total capital. In addition, other financial initiatives have been or may be undertaken, including public and private debt or equity issuance, bank debt refinancing, local financing in certain foreign countries and share repurchases.
AMETEKs Corporate Growth Plan consists of four key strategies: Operational Excellence.
Operational Excellence is AMETEKs cornerstone strategy for improving profit margins and strengthening its competitive position across its businesses. Operational Excellence focuses on cost reductions, improvements in operating efficiencies and sustainable practices. It emphasizes team building and a participative management culture. AMETEKs Operational Excellence strategies include lean manufacturing, global sourcing, Design for Six Sigma and Value Engineering/Value Analysis. Each plays an important role in improving efficiency, enhancing the pace and quality of innovation and cost reduction. Operational Excellence initiatives have yielded lower operating and administrative costs, shortened manufacturing cycle times, and resulted in higher cash flow from operations and increased customer satisfaction. They also have played a key role in achieving synergies from newly acquired companies.
Strategic Acquisitions .Acquisitions are a key to achieving the goals of AMETEKs Corporate Growth Plan. Since the beginning of 2012 through December31, 2016, AMETEK has completed 22acquisitions with annualized sales totaling approximately $1.2billion, including five acquisitions in 2016 (see Recent Acquisitions). AMETEK targets companies that offer the right strategic, technical and cultural fit. It seeks to acquire businesses in adjacent markets with complementary products and technologies. It also looks for businesses that provide attractive growth opportunities, often in new and emerging markets. Through these and prior acquisitions, AMETEKs management team has developed considerable skill in identifying, acquiring and integrating new businesses. As it has executed its acquisition strategy, AMETEKs mix of businesses has shifted toward those that are more highly differentiated and, therefore, offer better opportunities for growth and profitability.
Global & Market Expansion .AMETEK has experienced dramatic growth outside the United States, reflecting an expanding international customer base and the attractive growth potential of its businesses in overseas markets. While Europe remains its largest overseas market, AMETEK has pursued growth opportunities worldwide, especially in key emerging markets. It has grown sales in Latin America and Asia by strategically building, acquiring and expanding manufacturing facilities. AMETEK also has expanded its 3 Table of Contents sales and service capabilities in China and enhanced its sales presence and engineering capabilities in India. Elsewhere in Asia and in the Middle East, it has expanded sales, service and technical support. Recently acquired businesses have further added to AMETEKs international presence.
New Products . New products are essential to AMETEKs long-term growth. As a result, AMETEK has maintained a consistent investment in new product development and engineering. In 2016, AMETEK added to its highly differentiated product portfolio with a range of new products across many of its businesses. They included:  Creaforms HandyPROBE Next 3D scanner represents the latest advancement in optical-based, non-contact inspection for quality control, offering a rugged design, accuracy and ease of use;  TMCs Everstill TM K-400 benchtop platform offers patented vibration cancellation technology for highly sensitive devices such as optical and scanning probe microscopes and metrology instruments;  Sensors and Fluid Management Systems jet engine exhaust gas thermocouple is made of an advance ceramic matrix composite that extends the thermocouples life and performance;  Vision Researchs Phantom  VEO high-speed camera is built into a five-inch cube that is packed with full-size camera features and has the ability to withstand up to 100Gs of force;  Solartron Analyticals Apps-XM (extreme measurement) Series instruments were developed for such highly targeted research applications as the testing of energy storage devices and solar cell materials;  Grabner Instruments MINIVAP VP Vision vapor pressure tester offers portability and versatility in testing the vapor pressure of gasolines, jet fuels, crude oils, and volatile solvents;  Rotrons SemiCool precision fans and custom cooling systems offer precise temperature control in a compact package for semiconductor-specific applications;  Programmable Powers Asterion AC/DC Power Platform established new industry benchmarks in terms of power density performance, versatility, adaptability and ease of use;  Chandler Engineerings Model 5400 AUTO Shear History Simulator simplifies preparation and loading of water-based fracturing fluids used by the oil and gas industry to enhance production;  Zygos latest Verifire optical testing products incorporate software and hardware technology enhancements that help to ensure the production of more precise optical components and systems;  Pittman Motors 22mm DC022C Series motors are highly customizable for such high-tech applications as medical devices, process equipment and laboratory instruments; and  CAMECAs EIKOS atom probe microscope brings state-of-art atom probe tomography cost effectively to academic and industrial researchers conduction nanoscale materials research.
2016 OVERVIEW Operating Performance In 2016, AMETEK achieved sales of $3,840.1million, a decrease of 3.4% from 2015. The Company was impacted by a weak global economy and the effects of a continued strong U.S.dollar. Specifically, the Company experienced lower sales in its process businesses that have exposure to oil and gas markets and in its engineered materials, interconnects and packaging businesses that have exposure to metals markets. In 2016, AMETEK established record operating cash flow.
4 Table of Contents Financing In March2016, the Company along with certain of its foreign subsidiaries amended and restated its credit agreement dated as of September22, 2011 (the Credit Agreement). The Credit Agreement amends and restates the Companys existing $700million revolving credit facility, which was due to expire in December2018. The Credit Agreement consists of a five-year revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $850million with a final maturity date in March2021. The revolving credit facility total borrowing capacity excludes an accordion feature that permits the Company to request up to an additional $300million in revolving credit commitments at any time during the life of the Credit Agreement under certain conditions. The revolving credit facility provides the Company with additional financial flexibility to support its growth plans, including its acquisition strategy.
In October2016, the Company completed a private placement agreement to sell 500million Euros and 225million British pounds in senior notes to a group of institutional investors (the 2016 Private Placement). There were two funding dates under the 2016 Private Placement. The first funding occurred in October2016 for 500million Euros ($546.8million) and the second funding occurred in November2016 for 225million British pounds ($274.1million). The proceeds from the first funding of the 2016 Private Placement were used to pay down domestic borrowings under the Companys revolving credit facility. The proceeds from the second funding of the 2016 Private Placement were used to pay down, at maturity, a 40million British pound ($48.7million) 5.99% senior note in November2016 and provides the Company with additional financial flexibility to support its growth plans, including its acquisition strategy. See Note9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in PartII, Item8 of this Annual Report on Form10-K for further details.
Recent Acquisitions AMETEK spent $391.4million in cash, net of cash acquired, to acquire five businesses in 2016.
In January2016, AMETEK acquired Brookfield Engineering Laboratories (Brookfield), a manufacturer of viscometers and rheometers, as well as instrumentation to analyze texture and powder flow. Brookfield is part of EIG.
In January2016, AMETEK acquired ESP/SurgeX, a manufacturer of energy intelligence and power protection, monitoring and diagnostic solutions. ESP/SurgeX is part of EIG.
In July2016, AMETEK acquired HS Foils, a developer and manufacturer of key components used in radiation detectors including ultra-thin radiation windows, silicon drift detectors and x-ray filters. HSFoils is part of EIG.
In July2016, AMETEK acquired NuInstruments, a provider of magnetic sector mass spectrometers used for elemental and isotope analysis. NuInstruments is part of EIG.
In October2016, AMETEK acquired Laserage Technology Corporation (Laserage), a provider of laser fabrication services for the medical device market. Laserage is part of EMG.
Financial Information About Reportable Segments, Foreign Operations and Export Sales Information with respect to reportable segments and geographic areas is set forth in Note15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in PartII, Item8 of this Annual Report on Form10-K.
AMETEKs international sales decreased 2.1% to $2,010.7million in 2016. International sales represented 52.4% of consolidated net sales in 2016 compared with 51.7% in 2015. The decrease in international sales was primarily driven by a weak global economy and the effects of a continued strong U.S.dollar noted above.
5 Table of Contents Description of Business Described below are the products and markets of each reportable segment: EIG EIG is a leader in the design and manufacture of advanced instruments for the process, power and industrial, and aerospace markets. Its growth is based on the four strategies outlined in AMETEKs Corporate Growth Plan. In many instances, its products differ from or are technologically superior to its competitors products. It has achieved competitive advantage through continued investment in research, development and engineering to develop market-leading products that serve niche markets. It also has expanded its sales and service capabilities globally to serve its customers.
EIG is a leader in many of the specialized markets it serves. Products supplied to these markets include process control instruments for the oil and gas, petrochemical, pharmaceutical, semiconductor and automation industries. It provides a growing range of instruments to the laboratory equipment, ultraprecision manufacturing, medical, and test and measurement markets. It is a leader in power quality monitoring and metering, uninterruptible power systems, programmable power equipment, electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) test equipment, sensors for gas turbines, and dashboard instruments for heavy trucks and other vehicles. It supplies the aerospace industry with aircraft and engine sensors, monitoring systems, power supplies, fuel and fluid measurement systems, and data acquisition systems.
In 2016, 53% of EIGs net sales was to customers outside the United States. At December31, 2016, EIG employed approximately 8,300people, of whom approximately 1,100were covered by collective bargaining agreements. At December31, 2016, EIG had 84operating facilities: 53in the United States, nine in the United Kingdom, eight in Germany, three in Canada, two each in China and France and one each in Argentina, Austria, Denmark, Finland, Mexico, Switzerland and Taiwan. EIG also shares operating facilities with EMG in Brazil, China and Mexico.
Process and Analytical Instrumentation Markets and Products Process and analytical instrumentation sales represented 65% of EIGs 2016 net sales. These sales include process analyzers, emission monitors, spectrometers, elemental and surface analysis instruments, level, pressure and temperature sensors and transmitters, radiation measurement devices, level measurement devices, precision pumping systems, materials- and force-testing instruments, and contact and non-contact metrology products. Among the industries it serves are oil, gas and petrochemical refining, power generation, pharmaceutical manufacturing, specialty gas production, water and waste treatment, natural gas distribution, and semiconductor manufacturing. Its instruments are used for precision measurement in a number of applications, including radiation detection, trace element and materials analysis, nanotechnology research, ultraprecise manufacturing, and test and measurement.
Acquired in July2016, HSFoils develops patented silicon nitride window technology that significantly expands the limits of x-ray window performance and areas of application. HSFoils also has extensive expertise in silicon PIN diode and silicon drift detector manufacturing.
Acquired in July2016, NuInstruments offers a full suite of magnetic sector mass spectrometers used in advanced laboratory analysis across demanding research applications in earth and environmental sciences, material characterization, and nuclear isotope analysis. NuInstruments customers include leading universities and research institutions, and technical manufacturing and materials analysis companies.
Acquired in July2015, Surface Vision is a global leader in non-destructive process inspection. Surface Visions in-line image processing technology detects, classifies, filters and accurately maps specific defects over an entire surface area. End markets include the metals, paper, nonwovens, plastics and glass industries.
6 Table of Contents Power and Industrial Instrumentation Markets and Products Power and industrial instrumentation sales represented 27% of EIGs 2016 net sales. This business provides power monitoring and metering instruments, uninterruptible power supply systems and programmable power supplies used in a wide range of industrial settings. It is a leader in the design and manufacture of power measurement, quality monitoring and event recorders for use in power generation, transmission and distribution. It provides uninterruptible power supply systems, multifunction electric meters, annunciators, alarm monitoring systems and highly specialized communications equipment for smart grid applications. It also offers precision power supplies and power conditioning products and electrical immunity and EMC test equipment.
Acquired in January2016, Brookfield is the global leader in viscosity measurement instrumentation and offers a complete range of viscometers and rheometers, as well as instrumentation to analyze texture and powder flow. Its products are used primarily for quality control applications in a broad range of markets including food and beverage, pharmaceuticals, oil and gas, paints, solvents, chemicals, coatings and packaging.
Acquired in January2016, ESP/SurgeX is a leader in power protection, monitoring, and diagnostic solutions. ESP/SurgeX is the leading industry provider of on-site and remote power protection products used by industries to lower service costs and ensure reliable electric power to critical equipment. Its patented technology is widely used by the business equipment, imaging, audio visual, information technology, gaming and vending industries.
Aerospace Instrumentation Markets and Products Aerospace instrumentation sales represented 8% of EIGs 2016 net sales. AMETEKs aerospace products are designed to customer specifications and manufactured to stringent operational and reliability requirements. These products include airborne data systems, turbine engine temperature measurement products, vibration-monitoring systems, cockpit instruments and displays, fuel and fluid measurement products, sensors and switches. It serves all segments of the commercial and military aerospace market, including commercial airliners, business jets, regional aircraft and helicopters.
AMETEK operates in highly specialized aerospace market segments in which it has proven technological or manufacturing advantages versus its competition. Among its more significant competitive advantages is its 50-plus years experience as an aerospace supplier. It has long-standing relationships with the worlds leading commercial and military aircraft, jet engine and original equipment manufacturers and aerospace system integrators. AMETEK also provides the commercial aerospace aftermarket with spare part sales and repair and overhaul services.
Customers EIG is not dependent on any single customer such that the loss of that customer would have a material adverse effect on EIGs operations. Approximately 6% of EIGs 2016 net sales was made to its five largest customers.
EMG EMG is a differentiated supplier of precision motion control solutions, thermal management systems, specialty metals and electrical interconnects. EMG is a leader in many of the niche markets in which it competes. Products supplied to these markets include its highly engineered electrical connectors and electronics packaging used in aerospace and defense, medical, and industrial applications, as well as its advanced technical motor and motion control products, which are used in a wide range of medical devices, office and business equipment, automation and other applications.
7 Table of Contents EMG supplies high-purity powdered metals, strip and foil, specialty clad metals and metal matrix composites. Its blowers and heat exchangers provide electronic cooling and environmental control for the aerospace and defense industries. Its motors are widely used in commercial appliances, fitness equipment, food and beverage machines, hydraulic pumps, industrial blowers and vacuum cleaners. Additionally, it operates a global network of aviation maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) facilities.
EMG designs and manufactures products that, in many instances, are significantly different from or technologically superior to competitors products. It has achieved competitive advantage through continued investment in research, development and engineering, cost reductions from operational improvements, acquisition synergies and improved supply chain management.
In 2016, 51% of EMGs net sales was to customers outside the United States. At December31, 2016, EMG employed approximately 7,200people, of whom approximately 2,400were covered by collective bargaining agreements. At December31, 2016, EMG had 65operating facilities: 37in the United States, ten in the United Kingdom, four in France, three in China, two each in Germany, Italy and Mexico and oneeach in Brazil, the Czech Republic, Malaysia, Serbia and Taiwan.
Technical Motors and Systems Markets and Products Technical motors and systems sales represented 65% of EMGs 2016 net sales. Technical motors and systems primarily consist of precision motion control solutions, brushless motors, blowers and pumps, heat exchangers and other electromechanical systems. These products are used in aerospace and defense, semiconductor equipment, computer equipment, mass transit, medical equipment and power industries among others. Additionally, technical motors and systems includes floor care and specialty motors which are used in a wide range of products, such as household, commercial and personal care appliances, fitness equipment, food and beverage machines, lawn and garden equipment, material handling equipment, hydraulic pumps, industrial blowers, vacuum cleaners, and other household and commercial floor care products.
EMG produces motor-blower systems and heat exchangers used in thermal management and other applications on a variety of military and commercial aircraft and military ground vehicles. In addition, EMG provides the commercial and military aerospace industry with third-party MRO services on a global basis with facilities in the United States, Europe and Asia.
Engineered Materials, Interconnects and Packaging Markets and Products Engineered materials, interconnects and packaging sales represented 35% of EMGs 2016 net sales. AMETEK is a leader in highly engineered electrical connectors and electronics packaging used to protect sensitive devices and mission-critical electronics. Its electrical connectors, terminals, headers and packaging are designed specifically for harsh environments and highly customized applications. In addition, AMETEK is an innovator and market leader in specialized metal powder, strip, wire and bonded products used in medical, aerospace and defense, telecommunications, automotive and general industrial applications.
Acquired in October2016, Laserage offers precision tube fabrication of minimally invasive surgical devices, stents and catheter-based delivery systems. Laserages expertise includes laser fabrication of flat stock and tube for medical devices and specialty catheters.
Acquired in May2015, Global Tubes manufactures highly customized metal tubing from a wide variety of metals and alloys, including stainless steel, nickel, zirconium and titanium. Its products are used in highly engineered applications in the aerospace, energy, power generation and medical industries.
8 Table of Contents Customers EMG is not dependent on any single customer such that the loss of that customer would have a material adverse effect on EMGs operations. Approximately 9% of EMGs 2016 net sales was made to its five largest customers.
Marketing AMETEKs marketing efforts generally are organized and carried out at the business unit level. EIG makes use of distributors and sales representatives to market its products along with a direct sales force for its more technically sophisticated products. Within aerospace, the specialized customer base of aircraft and jet engine manufacturers is served primarily by direct sales engineers. Given the technical nature of many of its products, as well as its significant worldwide market share, EMG conducts much of its domestic and international marketing activities through a direct sales force and makes some use of sales representatives and distributors, both in the United States and in other countries.
Competition In general, most of AMETEKs markets are highly competitive with competition based on technology, performance, quality, service and price.
In EIGs markets, AMETEK believes it ranks as a leader in certain analytical measuring and control instruments and in the U.S. heavy-vehicle and power and industrial markets. It also is a major instrument and sensor supplier to commercial aviation. Competition is strong and may become intense for certain EIG products. In process and analytical instruments, numerous companies compete in each market on the basis of product quality, performance and innovation. In power and industrial and aerospace, AMETEK competes with a number of diversified companies depending on the specific market segment.
EMGs differentiated businesses compete with a limited number of companies in each of its markets. Competition is generally based on product innovation, performance and price. There also is competition from alternative materials and processes.
Availability of Raw Materials AMETEKs reportable segments obtain raw materials and supplies from a variety of sources and generally from more than one supplier. For EMG, however, certain items, including various base metals and certain steel components, are available from only a limited number of suppliers. AMETEK believes its sources and supplies of raw materials are adequate for its needs.
Backlog and Seasonal Variations of Business AMETEKs backlog of unfilled orders by reportable segment was as follows at December 31: 2016 2015 2014 (In millions) Electronic Instruments $ 587.0 $ 581.4 $ 623.2 Electromechanical 569.5 566.4 574.1 Total $ 1,156.5 $ 1,147.8 $ 1,197.3 Of the total backlog of unfilled orders at December31, 2016, approximately 88% is expected to be shipped by December31, 2017. The Company believes that neither its business as a whole, nor either of its reportable segments, is subject to significant seasonal variations, although certain individual operations experience some seasonal variability.
9 Table of Contents Research, Development and Engineering AMETEK is committed to, and has consistently invested in, research, development and engineering activities to design and develop new and improved products. Research, development and engineering costs before customer reimbursement were $200.8million in both 2016 and 2015 and $208.3million in 2014, respectively. Customer reimbursements in 2016, 2015 and 2014 were $7.2million, $6.9million and $8.9million, respectively. These amounts included research and development expenses of $112.0million, $116.3million and $119.3million in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. All such expenditures were directed toward the development of new products and processes and the improvement of existing products and processes.
Environmental Matters Information with respect to environmental matters is set forth in PartII, Item7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section entitled Environmental Matters and in Note13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in PartII, Item8 of this Annual Report on Form10-K.
Patents, Licenses and Trademarks AMETEK owns numerous unexpired U.S. and foreign patents, including counterparts of its more important U.S. patents, in the major industrial countries of the world. It is a licensor or licensee under patent agreements of various types, and its products are marketed under various registered and unregistered U.S. and foreign trademarks and trade names. AMETEK, however, does not consider any single patent or trademark, or any group of them, essential either to its business as a whole or to either one of its reportable segments. The annual royalties received or paid under license agreements are not significant to either of its reportable segments or to AMETEKs overall operations.
Employees At December31, 2016, AMETEK employed approximately 15,700people at its EIG, EMG and corporate operations, of whom approximately 3,500employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. AMETEK has two collective bargaining agreements that expire in 2017 that covers fewer than 100 employees. It expects no material adverse effects from the pending labor contract negotiations.
Working Capital Practices AMETEK does not have extraordinary working capital requirements in either of its reportable segments. Its customers generally are billed at normal trade terms that may include extended payment provisions. Inventories are closely controlled and maintained at levels related to production cycles and normal delivery requirements of customers.
Item1A.
Risk Factors You should consider carefully the following risk factors and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form10-K and the documents we incorporate by reference in this Annual Report on Form10-K.
Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
A downturn in the economy generally or in the markets we serve could adversely affect our business.
A number of the industries in which we operate are cyclical in nature and therefore are affected by factors beyond our control. A downturn in the U.S. or global economy, and, in particular, in the aerospace and defense, oil and gas, process instrumentation or power markets could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
10 Table of Contents Our growth could suffer if the markets into which we sell our products and services decline, do not grow as anticipated or experience cyclicality.
Our growth depends in part on the growth of the markets which we serve and visibility into our markets is limited (particularly for markets into which we sell through distribution). Our quarterly sales and profits depend substantially on the volume and timing of orders received during the fiscal quarter, which are difficult to forecast. Any decline or lower than expected growth in our served markets could diminish demand for our products and services, which would adversely affect our financial statements. Certain of our businesses operate in industries that may experience periodic, cyclical downturns. In addition, in certain of our businesses, demand depends on customers capital spending budgets, as well as government funding policies, and matters of public policy and government budget dynamics, as well as product and economic cycles can affect the spending decisions of these entities. Demand for our products and services is also sensitive to changes in customer order patterns, which may be affected by announced price changes, changes in incentive programs, new product introductions and customer inventory levels. Any of these factors could adversely affect our growth and results of operations in any given period.
Our growth strategy includes strategic acquisitions. We may not be able to consummate future acquisitions or successfully integrate recent and future acquisitions.
A portion of our growth has been attributed to acquisitions of strategic businesses. Since the beginning of 2012, through December31, 2016, we have completed 22acquisitions. We plan to continue making strategic acquisitions to enhance our global market position and broaden our product offerings. Although we have been successful with our acquisition strategy in the past, our ability to successfully effectuate acquisitions will be dependent upon a number of factors, including:  Our ability to identify acceptable acquisition candidates;  The impact of increased competition for acquisitions, which may increase acquisition costs and affect our ability to consummate acquisitions on favorable terms and may result in us assuming a greater portion of the sellers liabilities;  Successfully integrating acquired businesses, including integrating the financial, technological and management processes, procedures and controls of the acquired businesses with those of our existing operations;  Adequate financing for acquisitions being available on terms acceptable to us;  U.S. and foreign competition laws and regulations affecting our ability to make certain acquisitions;  Unexpected losses of key employees, customers and suppliers of acquired businesses;  Mitigating assumed, contingent and unknown liabilities; and  Challenges in managing the increased scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations.
The process of integrating acquired businesses into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require additional financial resources and attention from management that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of our existing operations. Furthermore, even if successfully integrated, the acquired business may not achieve the results we expected or produce expected benefits in the time frame planned. Failure to continue with our acquisition strategy and the successful integration of acquired businesses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
11 Table of Contents The indemnification provisions of acquisition agreements by which we have acquired companies may not fully protect us and as a result we may face unexpected liabilities.
Certain of the acquisition agreements by which we have acquired companies require the former owners to indemnify us against certain liabilities related to the operation of the company before we acquired it. In most of these agreements, however, the liability of the former owners is limited and certain former owners may be unable to meet their indemnification responsibilities. We cannot assure you that these indemnification provisions will protect us fully or at all, and as a result we may face unexpected liabilities that adversely affect our financial statements.
We may not properly execute, or realize anticipated cost savings or benefits from, our cost reduction initiatives.
Our success is partly dependent upon properly executing and realizing cost savings or other benefits from our ongoing production and procurement initiatives. These initiatives are primarily designed to make the company more efficient, which is necessary in the companys highly competitive industry. These initiatives are often complex, and a failure to implement them properly may, in addition to not meeting projected cost savings or benefits, adversely affect our business and operations.
Foreign and domestic economic, political, legal, compliance and business factors could negatively affect our international sales and operations.
International sales for 2016 and 2015 represented 52.4% and 51.7% of our consolidated net sales, respectively. As a result of our growth strategy, we anticipate that the percentage of sales outside the United States will increase in the future. Approximately half of our international sales are of products manufactured outside the United States. We have manufacturing operations in 17 countries outside the United States, with significant operations in China, the Czech Republic and Mexico. A prolonged disruption of our ability to obtain a supply of goods from these countries or a change in the effective cost of these products could have a material adverse effect on our sales and operations. International sales and operations are subject to the customary risks of operating in an international environment, including:  Imposition of trade or foreign exchange restrictions, including in the United States;  Overlap of different tax structures;  Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, including in the United States;  Trade protection measures, such as the imposition of or increase in tariffs and other trade barriers, including in the United States;  The difficulty and/or costs of designing and implementing an effective control environment across diverse regions and employee bases;  Restrictions on currency repatriation;  General economic conditions;  Unstable political situations;  Nationalization of assets; and  Compliance with a wide variety of international and U.S. laws and regulatory requirements.
12 Table of Contents Furthermore, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including changes in the relative value of currencies in the countries where we operate, subject us to exchange rate exposure and may adversely affect our financial statements. For example, increased strength in the U.S. dollar will increase the effective price of our products sold overseas, which may adversely affect sales or require us to lower our prices. In addition, our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S.dollars, and we must translate our assets, liabilities, sales and expenses into U.S.dollars for external reporting purposes. As a result, changes in the value of the U.S.dollar due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates or currency exchange controls may materially and negatively affect the value of these items in our consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their local currency.
Our international sales and operations may be adversely impacted by compliance with export laws.
We are required to comply with various import, export, export control and economic sanctions laws, which may affect our transactions with certain customers, business partners and other persons, including in certain cases dealings with or between our employees and subsidiaries. In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies and in other circumstances, we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting a controlled item. In addition, failure to comply with any of these regulations could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties, disruptions to our business, limitations on our ability to import and export products and services and damage to our reputation.
Our reputation, ability to do business and financial statements may be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners.
We cannot provide assurance that our internal controls and compliance systems will always protect us from acts committed by employees, agents or business partners of ours (or of businesses we acquire or partner with) that would violate U.S. and/or non-U.S. laws, including the laws governing payments to government officials, bribery, fraud, kickbacks and false claims, pricing, sales and marketing practices, conflicts of interest, competition, export and import compliance, money laundering and data privacy. In particular, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree. Any such improper actions or allegations of such acts could damage our reputation and subject us to civil or criminal investigations in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions and related shareholder lawsuits could lead to substantial civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties and could cause us to incur significant legal and investigatory fees. In addition, we rely on our suppliers to adhere to our supplier standards of conduct and material violations of such standards of conduct could occur that could have a material effect on our financial statements.
Any inability to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of skilled officers and other employees could impede our ability to compete successfully.
If we cannot hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, we may not be able to effectively integrate acquired businesses and realize anticipated results from those businesses, manage our expanding international operations and otherwise profitably grow our business. Even if we do hire and retain a sufficient number of employees, the expense necessary to attract and motivate these officers and employees may adversely affect our results of operations.
If we are unable to develop new products on a timely basis, it could adversely affect our business and prospects.
We believe that our future success depends, in part, on our ability to develop, on a timely basis, technologically advanced products that meet or exceed appropriate industry standards. Although we believe we have certain technological and other advantages over our competitors, maintaining such advantages will require 13 Table of Contents us to continue investing in research and development and sales and marketing. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient resources to make such investments, that we will be able to make the technological advances necessary to maintain such competitive advantages or that we can recover major research and development expenses. We are not currently aware of any emerging standards or new products which could render our existing products obsolete, although there can be no assurance that this will not occur or that we will be able to develop and successfully market new products.
Our technology is important to our success and our failure to protect this technology could put us at a competitive disadvantage.
Many of our products rely on proprietary technology; therefore, we endeavor to protect our intellectual property rights through patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks, confidentiality agreements and other contractual provisions. Despite our efforts to protect proprietary rights, unauthorized parties or competitors may copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. In addition, our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights may be limited in certain countries outside the U.S. Actions to enforce our rights may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and we make no assurances that any such actions will be successful.
A shortage of, or price increases for, our raw materials could increase our operating costs.
While we manufacture certain parts and components used in our products, we require substantial amounts of raw materials and purchase some parts and components from suppliers. The availability and prices for raw materials, parts and components may be subject to curtailment or change due to, among other things, suppliers allocation to other purchasers, interruptions in production by suppliers, changes in exchange rates and prevailing price levels. In addition, certain items, including base metals and certain steel components, are available only from a limited number of suppliers and are subject to commodity market fluctuations. Shortages in raw materials or price increases therefore could affect the prices we charge, our operating costs and our competitive position, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
Certain environmental risks may cause us to be liable for costs associated with hazardous or toxic substance clean-up which may adversely affect our financial condition.
Our businesses, operations and facilities are subject to a number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations concerning, among other things, air emissions, discharges to waters and the use, manufacturing, generation, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes. Environmental risks are inherent in many of our manufacturing operations. Certain laws provide that a current or previous owner or operator of property may be liable for the costs of investigating, removing and remediating hazardous materials at such property, regardless of whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous materials. In addition, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act generally imposes joint and several liability for clean-up costs, without regard to fault, on parties contributing hazardous substances to sites designated for clean-up under the Act. We have been named a potentially responsible party at several sites, which are the subject of government-mandated clean-ups. As the result of our ownership and operation of facilities that use, manufacture, store, handle and dispose of various hazardous materials, we may incur substantial costs for investigation, removal, remediation and capital expenditures related to compliance with environmental laws. While it is not possible to precisely quantify the potential financial impact of pending environmental matters, based on our experience to date, we believe that the outcome of these matters is not likely to have a material adverse effect on our financial position or future results of operations. In addition, new laws and regulations, new classification of hazardous materials, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that future environmental liabilities will not occur or that environmental damages due to prior or present practices will not result in future liabilities.
14 Table of Contents We are subject to numerous governmental regulations, which may be burdensome or lead to significant costs.
Our operations are subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign governmental laws and regulations. In addition, existing laws and regulations may be revised or reinterpreted and new laws and regulations, including with respect to climate change, may be adopted or become applicable to us or customers for our products. We cannot predict the form any such new laws or regulations will take or the impact any of these laws and regulations will have on our business or operations.
We are subject to a variety of litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings in the course of our business that could adversely affect our financial statements.
We are subject to a variety of litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings incidental to our business (or the business operations of previously owned entities), including claims for damages arising out of the use of products or services and claims relating to intellectual property matters, employment matters, tax matters, commercial disputes, competition and sales and trading practices, environmental matters, personal injury, insurance coverage and acquisition-related matters, as well as regulatory investigations or enforcement. These lawsuits may include claims for compensatory damages, punitive and consequential damages and/or injunctive relief. The defense of these lawsuits may divert our managements attention, we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits, and we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements or become subject to equitable remedies that could adversely affect our operations and financial statements. Moreover, any insurance or indemnification rights that we may have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against such losses. In addition, developments in proceedings in any given period may require us to adjust the loss contingency estimates that we have recorded in our financial statements, record estimates for liabilities or assets previously not susceptible of reasonable estimates or pay cash settlements or judgments. Any of these developments could adversely affect our financial statements in any particular period. We cannot assure you that our liabilities in connection with litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our financial statements and reputation. However, based on our experience, current information and applicable law, we do not believe that any amounts we may be required to pay in connection with litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings in excess of our reserves as of the date of this information statement will have a material effect on our financial statements.
We operate in highly competitive industries, which may adversely affect our results of operations or ability to expand our business.
Our markets are highly competitive. We compete, domestically and internationally, with individual producers, as well as with vertically integrated manufacturers, some of which have resources greater than we do. The principal elements of competition for our products are product technology, quality, service, distribution and price. EMGs competition in specialty metal products stems from alternative materials and processes. In the markets served by EIG, although we believe EIG is a market leader, competition is strong and could intensify. In the aerospace and heavy-vehicle markets served by EIG, a limited number of companies compete on the basis of product quality, performance and innovation. Our competitors may develop new or improve existing products that are superior to our products or may adapt more readily to new technologies or changing requirements of our customers. There can be no assurance that our business will not be adversely affected by increased competition in the markets in which it operates or that our products will be able to compete successfully with those of our competitors.
Restrictions contained in our revolving credit facility and other debt agreements may limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness.
Our existing revolving credit facility and other debt agreements (each a Debt Facility and collectively, Debt Facilities) contain restrictive covenants, including restrictions on our ability to incur indebtedness. These restrictions could limit our ability to effectuate future acquisitions, limit our ability to pay dividends, limit our 15 Table of Contents ability to make capital expenditures or restrict our financial flexibility. Our Debt Facilities contain covenants requiring us to achieve certain financial and operating results and maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. Our ability to meet the financial covenants or requirements in our Debt Facilities may be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to satisfy such covenants and requirements. A breach of these covenants or our inability to comply with the financial ratios, tests or other restrictions contained in a Debt Facility could result in an event of default under one or more of our other Debt Facilities. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under a Debt Facility, and the expiration of any grace periods, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under one or more of our other Debt Facilities, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If this were to occur, our assets may not be sufficient to fully repay the amounts due under our Debt Facilities or our other indebtedness.
Our business and financial performance may be adversely affected by information technology and other business disruptions.
Our facilities, supply chains, distribution systems and information technology systems may be impacted by natural or man-made disruptions, including information technology attacks or failures, threats to physical security, armed conflict, as well as damaging weather or other acts of nature, pandemics or other public health crises. For example, our information technology systems may be damaged, disrupted or shut down due to attacks by computer hackers, computer viruses, employee error or malfeasance, power outages, hardware failures, telecommunications or utility failures, or other unforeseen events, and in any such circumstances our disaster recovery planning may be ineffective or inadequate. A shutdown of, or inability to utilize, one or more of our facilities, our supply chain, our distribution system, or our information technology, telecommunications or other systems, could significantly disrupt our operations, delay production and shipments, damage customer relationships and our reputation, result in lost sales, result in the misappropriation or corruption of data, or result in legal exposure and large repair and replacement expenses.
Our goodwill and other intangible assets represent a substantial amount of our total assets and the impairment of such substantial goodwill and intangible assets could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations.
Our total assets include substantial amounts of intangible assets, primarily goodwill. At December31, 2016, goodwill and other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, totaled $4,553.0million or 64% of our total assets. The goodwill results from our acquisitions, representing the excess of cost over the fair value of the net tangible and other identifiable intangible assets we have acquired. At a minimum, we assess annually whether there has been impairment in the value of our intangible assets. For the year ended December31, 2016, the Company recorded a $13.9 million non-cash impairment charge related to certain of the Companys trade names. For further discussion, see Critical Accounting Policies in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form10-K.
If future operating performance at one or more of our reporting units were to fall significantly below current levels, we could record, under current applicable accounting rules, a non-cash charge to operating income for goodwill or other intangible asset impairment. Any determination requiring the impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or other intangible assets would negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.
Item1B.
Unresolved Staff Comments None.
16 Table of Contents Item2.
Properties At December31, 2016, the Company had 149 operating facilities in 25states and 17foreign countries. Of these facilities, 61are owned by the Company and 88are leased. The properties owned by the Company consist of approximately 739acres, of which approximately 5.4million square feet are under roof. Under lease is a total of approximately 3.0million square feet. The leases expire over a range of years from 2017 to 2082, with renewal options for varying terms contained in many of the leases. The Companys executive offices in Berwyn, Pennsylvania, occupy approximately 43,000square feet under a lease that expires in September2023.
The Companys machinery and equipment, plants and offices are in satisfactory operating condition and are adequate for the uses to which they are put. The operating facilities of the Company by reportable segment were as follows at December31, 2016: Number of Operating Facilities Square Feet Under Roof Owned Leased Owned Leased Electronic Instruments 30 54 2,317,000 2,018,000 Electromechanical 31 34 3,052,000 1,019,000 Total 61 88 5,369,000 3,037,000 Item3.
Legal Proceedings Please refer to Environmental Matters in PartII, Item7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in PartII, Item8 of this Annual Report on Form10-K for information regarding certain litigation matters.
The Company is, from time to time, subject to a variety of litigation and similar proceedings incidental to its business. These lawsuits may involve claims for damages arising out of the use of the Companys products and services, personal injury, employment matters, tax matters, commercial disputes and intellectual property matters. The Company may also become subject to lawsuits as a result of past or future acquisitions. Based upon the Companys experience, the Company does not believe that these proceedings and claims will have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
17 Table of Contents PART II Item5.
Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The principal market on which the Companys common stock is traded is the New York Stock Exchange and it is traded under the symbol AME. On January31, 2017, there were approximately 2,000holders of record of the Companys common stock.
Market price and dividend information with respect to the Companys common stock is set forth below. Future dividend payments by the Company will be dependent on future earnings, financial requirements, contractual provisions of debt agreements and other relevant factors.
Under its share repurchase program, the Company repurchased approximately 7,099,000 shares of its common stock for $336.1million in 2016 and approximately 7,978,000 shares of its common stock for $435.4million in 2015.
The high and low sales prices of the Companys common stock on the New York Stock Exchange composite tape and the quarterly dividends per share paid on the common stock were: First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter 2016 Dividends paid per share $ 0.09 $ 0.09 $ 0.09 $ 0.09 Common stock trading range: High $ 52.93 $ 52.61 $ 50.27 $ 51.26 Low $ 42.82 $ 43.28 $ 43.30 $ 43.98 2015 Dividends paid per share $ 0.09 $ 0.09 $ 0.09 $ 0.09 Common stock trading range: High $ 54.00 $ 55.56 $ 57.67 $ 57.00 Low $ 47.85 $ 51.23 $ 50.55 $ 50.97 18 Table of Contents Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table reflects purchases of AMETEK, Inc. common stock by the Company during the three months ended December31, 2016: Period TotalNumber ofShares Purchased (1)(2) AveragePrice Paidper Share TotalNumber of SharesPurchasedas PartofPublicly AnnouncedPlan (2) Approximate DollarValueof SharesthatMay YetBe Purchased Under thePlan October 1, 2016 to October 31, 2016 376 $ 44.80 376 $ 75,639,899 November 1, 2016 to November 30, 2016 2,103,351 47.56 2,103,351 375,594,178 December 1, 2016 to December 31, 2016    375,594,178 Total 2,103,727 47.56 2,103,727 (1) Includes 458 shares surrendered to the Company to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with employees share-based compensation awards.
(2) Consists of the number of shares purchased pursuant to the Companys Board of Directors remaining portion of the $350million authorization for the repurchase of its common stock announced in November2015 and $400million authorization for the repurchase of its common stock announced in November2016. Such purchases may be effected from time to time in the open market or in private transactions, subject to market conditions and at managements discretion.
Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plan Information The following table sets forth information as of December31, 2016 regarding all of the Companys existing compensation plans pursuant to which equity securities are authorized for issuance to employees and nonemployee directors: Plan category Numberofsecurities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights (a) Weightedaverage exercise price of outstandingoptions, warrants and rights (b) Numberofsecurities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding securities reflectedincolumn(a)) (c) Equity compensation plans approved by security holders 6,010,806 $ 42.25 7,994,840 Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders    Total 6,010,806 $ 42.25 7,994,840 19 Table of Contents Stock Performance Graph The following graph and accompanying table compare the cumulative total stockholder return for AMETEK over the last five years ended December31, 2016 with total returns for the same period for the Standard and Poors (S&P)500 Index and Russell1000 Index. AMETEKs stock price is a component of both indices. The performance graph and table assume a $100investment made on December31, 2011 and reinvestment of all dividends. The stock performance shown on the graph below is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance.
COMPARISON OF FIVE-YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN December 31, 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 AMETEK, Inc.
$ 100.00 $ 134.71 $ 189.86 $ 190.91 $ 195.70 $ 178.82 S&P 500 Index 100.00 116.00 153.58 174.60 177.01 198.18 Russell 1000 Index 100.00 116.42 154.97 175.49 177.10 198.44 20 Table of Contents Item6.
Selected Financial Data The following financial information for the five years ended December31, 2016, has been derived from the Companys consolidated financial statements. This information should be read in conjunction with Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form10-K.
2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 (In millions, except per share amounts) Consolidated Operating Results (Year Ended December 31): Net sales $ 3,840.1 $ 3,974.3 $ 4,022.0 $ 3,594.1 $ 3,334.2 Operating income $ 801.9 $ 907.7 $ 898.6 $ 815.1 $ 745.9 Interest expense $ 94.3 $ 91.8 $ 79.9 $ 73.6 $ 75.5 Net income $ 512.2 $ 590.9 $ 584.5 $ 517.0 $ 459.1 Earnings per share: Basic $ 2.20 $ 2.46 $ 2.39 $ 2.12 $ 1.90 Diluted $ 2.19 $ 2.45 $ 2.37 $ 2.10 $ 1.88 Dividends declared and paid per share $ 0.36 $ 0.36 $ 0.33 $ 0.24 $ 0.22 Weighted average common shares outstanding: Basic 232.6 239.9 244.9 243.9 241.5 Diluted 233.7 241.6 247.1 246.1 244.0 Performance Measures and Other Data: Operating income  Return on net sales 20.9 % 22.8 % 22.3 % 22.7 % 22.4 % Return on average total assets 11.7 % 13.9 % 14.6 % 14.7 % 15.7 % Net income  Return on average total capital 9.5 % 11.6 % 12.3 % 12.1 % 12.6 % Return on average stockholders equity 15.7 % 18.2 % 18.3 % 18.2 % 20.0 % EBITDA (1) $ 966.0 $ 1,046.9 $ 1,022.6 $ 916.3 $ 842.7 Ratio of EBITDA to interest expense (1) 10.2x 11.4x 12.8x 12.4x 11.2x Depreciation and amortization $ 179.7 $ 149.5 $ 138.6 $ 118.7 $ 105.5 Capital expenditures $ 63.3 $ 69.1 $ 71.3 $ 63.3 $ 57.4 Cash provided by operating activities $ 756.8 $ 672.5 $ 726.0 $ 660.7 $ 612.5 Free cash flow (2) $ 693.5 $ 603.4 $ 654.7 $ 597.4 $ 555.1 Consolidated Financial Position (At December 31): Current assets $ 1,928.2 $ 1,618.8 $ 1,577.6 $ 1,368.3 $ 1,163.9 Current liabilities $ 924.4 $ 1,024.0 $ 934.5 $ 872.7 $ 878.5 Property, plant and equipment, net $ 473.2 $ 484.5 $ 448.4 $ 402.8 $ 383.5 Total assets $ 7,100.7 $ 6,660.5 $ 6,415.9 $ 5,874.4 $ 5,186.5 Long-term debt, net $ 2,062.6 $ 1,553.1 $ 1,424.4 $ 1,140.1 $ 1,131.0 Total debt, net $ 2,341.6 $ 1,938.0 $ 1,709.0 $ 1,411.5 $ 1,450.2 Stockholders equity $ 3,256.5 $ 3,254.6 $ 3,239.6 $ 3,136.1 $ 2,535.2 Stockholders equity per share $ 14.20 $ 13.82 $ 13.42 $ 12.80 $ 10.42 Total debt as a percentage of capitalization 41.8 % 37.3 % 34.5 % 31.0 % 36.4 % Net debt as a percentage of capitalization (3) 33.3 % 32.4 % 29.1 % 26.3 % 33.8 % See Notes to Selected Financial Data on the following page.
21 Table of Contents Notes to Selected Financial Data (1) EBITDA represents earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. EBITDA is presented because the Company is aware that it is used by rating agencies, securities analysts, investors and other parties in evaluating the Company. It should not be considered, however, as an alternative to operating income as an indicator of the Companys operating performance or as an alternative to cash flows as a measure of the Companys overall liquidity as presented in the Companys consolidated financial statements. Furthermore, EBITDA measures shown for the Company may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. The following table presents the reconciliation of net income reported in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) to EBITDA: Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 (In millions) Net income $ 512.2 $ 590.9 $ 584.5 $ 517.0 $ 459.1 Add (deduct): Interest expense 94.3 91.8 79.9 73.6 75.5 Interest income (1.1 ) (0.8 ) (0.8 ) (0.8 ) (0.7 ) Income taxes 180.9 215.5 220.4 207.8 203.3 Depreciation 74.8 68.7 63.7 57.2 53.7 Amortization 104.9 80.8 74.9 61.5 51.8 Total adjustments 453.8 456.0 438.1 399.3 383.6 EBITDA $ 966.0 $ 1,046.9 $ 1,022.6 $ 916.3 $ 842.7 (2) Free cash flow represents cash flow from operating activities less capital expenditures. Free cash flow is presented because the Company is aware that it is used by rating agencies, securities analysts, investors and other parties in evaluating the Company. (Also see note1 above). The following table presents the reconciliation of cash flow from operating activities reported in accordance with U.S. GAAP to free cash flow: Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 (In millions) Cash provided by operating activities $ 756.8 $ 672.5 $ 726.0 $ 660.7 $ 612.5 Deduct: Capital expenditures (63.3 ) (69.1 ) (71.3 ) (63.3 ) (57.4 ) Free cash flow $ 693.5 $ 603.4 $ 654.7 $ 597.4 $ 555.1 (3) Net debt represents total debt, net minus cash and cash equivalents. Net debt is presented because the Company is aware that it is used by rating agencies, securities analysts, investors and other parties in evaluating the Company. (Also see note1 above). The following table presents the reconciliation of total debt, net reported in accordance with U.S. GAAP to net debt: December 31, 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 (In millions) Total debt, net $ 2,341.6 $ 1,938.0 $ 1,709.0 $ 1,411.5 $ 1,450.2 Less: Cash and cash equivalents (717.3 ) (381.0 ) (377.6 ) (295.2 ) (158.0 ) Net debt 1,624.3 1,557.0 1,331.4 1,116.3 1,292.2 Stockholders equity 3,256.5 3,254.6 3,239.6 3,136.1 2,535.2 Capitalization (net debt plus stockholders equity) $ 4,880.8 $ 4,811.6 $ 4,571.0 $ 4,252.4 $ 3,827.4 Net debt as a percentage of capitalization 33.3 % 32.4 % 29.1 % 26.3 % 33.8 % 22 Table of Contents Item7.
Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This report includes forward-looking statements based on the Companys current assumptions, expectations and projections about future events. When used in this report, the words believes, anticipates, may, expect, intend, estimate, project and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain such words. In this report, the Company discloses important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from managements expectations. For more information on these and other factors, see Forward-Looking Information herein.
The following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with Item1A. Risk Factors, Item6. Selected Financial Data and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form10-K.
Business Overview AMETEKs operations are affected by global, regional and industry economic factors. However, the Companys strategic geographic and industry diversification, and its mix of products and services, have helped to mitigate the potential adverse impact of any unfavorable developments in any one industry or the economy of any single country on its consolidated operating results. In 2016, the Company was impacted by a weak global economy and the effects of a continued strong U.S.dollar. Specifically, the Company experienced lower sales in its process businesses that have exposure to oil and gas markets and in its engineered materials, interconnects and packaging businesses that have exposure to metals markets. Contributions from recent acquisitions, combined with successful Operational Excellence initiatives, helped to partially offset the oil and gas and metals markets weakness. The Company also benefited from its strategic initiatives under AMETEKs four key strategies: Operational Excellence, Strategic Acquisitions, Global & Market Expansion and New Products. Items of note in 2016 were:  During 2016, the Company recorded pre-tax realignment costs totaling $25.6million. The realignment costs had the effect of reducing net income for 2016 by $17.0million ($0.07 per diluted share). See below for further discussion.
During 2016, the Company recorded a $13.9million non-cash impairment charge related to certain of the Companys trade names. The impairment charge had the effect of reducing net income for 2016 by $8.6million ($0.04 per diluted share). See below for further discussion.
During 2016, the Company spent $391.4million in cash, net of cash acquired, to acquire five businesses:  In January2016, AMETEK acquired Brookfield Engineering Laboratories (Brookfield), a manufacturer of viscometers and rheometers, as well as instrumentation to analyze texture and powder flow;  In January2016, AMETEK acquired ESP/SurgeX, a manufacturer of energy intelligence and power protection, monitoring and diagnostic solutions;  In July2016, AMETEK acquired HS Foils, a developer and manufacturer of key components used in radiation detectors including ultra-thin radiation windows, silicon drift detectors and x-ray filters;  In July2016, AMETEK acquired NuInstruments, a provider of magnetic sector mass spectrometers used for elemental and isotope analysis; and  In October2016, AMETEK acquired Laserage Technology Corporation (Laserage), a provider of laser fabrication services for the medical device market.
During 2016, the Company established record cash flow provided by operating activities that totaled $756.8million for 2016, an $84.3million or 12.5% increase from 2015.
23 Table of Contents  The Company continued its emphasis on investment in research, development and engineering, spending $200.8million in 2016 before customer reimbursement of $7.2million. Sales from products introduced in the past three years were $929.6million or 24.2% of net sales.
In March2016, the Company along with certain of its foreign subsidiaries amended and restated its credit agreement dated as of September22, 2011 (the Credit Agreement). The Credit Agreement amends and restates the Companys existing $700million revolving credit facility, which was due to expire in December2018. The Credit Agreement consists of a five-year revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $850million with a final maturity date in March2021. The revolving credit facility total borrowing capacity excludes an accordion feature that permits the Company to request up to an additional $300million in revolving credit commitments at any time during the life of the Credit Agreement under certain conditions. The revolving credit facility provides the Company with additional financial flexibility to support its growth plans, including its acquisition strategy.
In October2016, the Company completed a private placement agreement to sell 500million Euros and 225million British pounds in senior notes to a group of institutional investors (the 2016 Private Placement). There were two funding dates under the 2016 Private Placement. The first funding occurred in October2016 for 500million Euros ($546.8million) and the second funding occurred in November2016 for 225million British pounds ($274.1million). The proceeds from the first funding of the 2016 Private Placement were used to pay down domestic borrowings under the Companys revolving credit facility. The proceeds from the second funding of the 2016 Private Placement were used to pay down, at maturity, a 40million British pound ($48.7million) 5.99% senior note in November2016 and provides the Company with additional financial flexibility to support its growth plans, including its acquisition strategy. See Liquidity and Capital Resources section for further discussion.
Results of Operations The following table sets forth net sales and income by reportable segment and on a consolidated basis: Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 (In thousands) Net sales (1) : Electronic Instruments $ 2,360,285 $ 2,417,192 $ 2,421,638 Electromechanical 1,479,802 1,557,103 1,600,326 Consolidated net sales $ 3,840,087 $ 3,974,295 $ 4,021,964 Operating income and income before income taxes: Segment operating income (2) : Electronic Instruments $ 577,717 $ 639,399 $ 612,992 Electromechanical 277,873 318,098 335,046 Total segment operating income 855,590 957,497 948,038 Corporate administrative and other expenses (53,693 ) (49,781 ) (49,452 ) Consolidated operating income 801,897 907,716 898,586 Interest and other expenses, net (108,794 ) (101,336 ) (93,754 ) Consolidated income before income taxes $ 693,103 $ 806,380 $ 804,832 (1) After elimination of intra- and intersegment sales, which are not significant in amount.
(2) Segment operating income represents net sales less all direct costs and expenses (including certain administrative and other expenses) applicable to each segment, but does not include interest expense.
24 Table of Contents Results of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2016 compared with the year ended December 31, 2015 In 2016, the Company was impacted by a weak global economy and the effects of a continued strong U.S.dollar. Specifically, the Company experienced lower sales in its process businesses that have exposure to oil and gas markets and in its engineered materials, interconnects and packaging businesses that have exposure to metals markets.
Contributions from the acquisitions completed in 2016 and the acquisitions of Surface Vision in July2015 and GlobalTubes in May2015, as well as the Companys Operational Excellence initiatives had a positive impact on 2016 results. The full year impact of the 2016acquisitions and continued focus on and implementation of Operational Excellence initiatives, including the 2016 realignment actions (described further throughout the results of operations for the fourth quarter and year ended December31, 2016), are expected to have a positive impact on the Companys 2017results. In the second half of 2016, the Company noted stabilization in the markets mentioned above compared to 2015; however, the Company still expects the challenging global economic environment to continue to impact its markets and geographies into the first half of 2017.
Net sales for 2016 were $3,840.1million, a decrease of $134.2million or 3.4%, compared with net sales of $3,974.3million in 2015. Electronic Instruments Group (EIG) net sales were $2,360.3million in 2016, a decrease of 2.4%, compared with $2,417.2million in 2015. Electromechanical Group (EMG) net sales were $1,479.8million in 2016, a decrease of 5.0%, compared with $1,557.1million in 2015. The decrease in net sales for 2016 was due to a 7% organic sales decline and an unfavorable 1% effect of foreign currency translation, partially offset by a 4% increase from acquisitions.
Total international sales for 2016 were $2,010.7million or 52.4% of net sales, a decrease of $44.0million or 2.1%, compared with international sales of $2,054.7 million or 51.7% of net sales in 2015. The $44.0million decrease in international sales was primarily driven by a weak global economy, as well as the foreign currency translation headwind noted above. Both reportable segments of the Company maintain strong international sales presences in Europe and Asia. Export shipments from the United States, which are included in total international sales, were $1,036.0million in 2016, a decrease of $54.7million or 5.0%, compared with $1,090.7million in 2015. Export shipments decreased primarily due to a weak global economy, as well as the competitive impacts of a strong U.S. dollar.
Orders for 2016 were $3,848.8million, a decrease of $75.9million or 1.9%, compared with $3,924.7million in 2015. The decrease in orders for 2016 was due to a 5% organic order decline resulting from a weak global economy noted above, partially offset by a 3% increase from acquisitions. As a result, the Companys backlog of unfilled orders at December31, 2016 was $1,156.5million, an increase of $8.7million or 0.8%, compared with $1,147.8million at December31, 2015.
The Company recorded 2016 realignment costs totaling $25.6million in the fourth quarter of 2016 (the 2016 realignment costs). The 2016 realignment costs primarily related to $19.3million in severance costs for a reduction in workforce and $6.2 million of asset write-downs in response to the impact of a weak global economy on certain of the Companys businesses, as well as the effects of a continued strong U.S.dollar. The Company recorded 2015 realignment costs totaling $36.6million, with $15.9million recorded in the first quarter of 2015 and $20.7million recorded in the fourth quarter of 2015 (the 2015 realignment costs). The 2015 realignment costs primarily related to reductions in workforce in response to the impact of a weak global economy on certain of the Companys businesses, as well as the effects of a continued strong U.S.dollar. See Note18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in PartII, Item8 of this Annual Report on Form10-K for further details.
25 Table of Contents The 2016 and 2015 realignment costs were reported in the consolidated statement of income as follows (in millions): 2016 2015 ThreeMonths Ended December31, Year Ended December31, ThreeMonths Ended March31, ThreeMonths Ended December31, Year Ended December31, Cost of sales $ 24.0 $ 24.0 $ 15.8 $ 20.0 $ 35.8 Selling, general and administrative expenses 1.6 1.6 0.1 0.7 0.8 Total $ 25.6 $ 25.6 $ 15.9 $ 20.7 $ 36.6 The 2016 and 2015 realignment costs were reported in segment operating income as follows (in millions): 2016 2015 ThreeMonths Ended December31, Year Ended December31, ThreeMonths Ended March31, ThreeMonths Ended December31, Year Ended December31, EIG $ 12.4 $ 12.4 $ 9.3 $ 9.3 $ 18.5 EMG 11.6 11.6 6.5 10.8 17.3 Total $ 24.0 $ 24.0 $ 15.8 $ 20.0 $ 35.8 The 2016 and 2015 realignment costs negatively impacted segment operating margins as follows (in basis points): 2016 2015 ThreeMonths Ended December31, Year Ended December31, ThreeMonths Ended December31, Year Ended December31, EIG (200 ) (50 ) (150 ) (70 ) EMG (330 ) (80 ) (300 ) (110 ) Total (250 ) (60 ) (200 ) (90 ) The expected annualized cash savings from the 2016 realignment costs is expected to be approximately $35million, with approximately $15million expected to be realized in 2017.
Segment operating income for 2016 was $855.6million, a decrease of $101.9million or 10.6%, compared with segment operating income of $957.5million in 2015. Segment operating income, as a percentage of net sales, decreased to 22.3% in 2016, compared with 24.1% in 2015. The decrease in segment operating income and segment operating margins for 2016 resulted primarily from the decrease in net sales noted above and a $29.7million increase in depreciation and amortization expense, which included a $13.9million non-cash impairment charge related to certain of the Companys trade names ($9.2million impacted EIG and $4.7million impacted EMG). The 2016 impairment charge negatively impacted segment operating margins by approximately 40basis points. Segment operating income and segment operating margins for 2016 and 2015 include the impact of the realignment costs detailed in the tables above.
Cost of sales for 2016 was $2,575.2million or 67.1% of net sales, a decrease of $42.8million or 1.6%, compared with $2,618.0million or 65.9% of net sales for 2015. The cost of sales decrease was primarily due to the net sales decrease noted above, partially offset by a $29.7million increase in depreciation and amortization expense, which included a $13.9million impairment charge noted above. Cost of sales for 2016 and 2015 include the impact of the realignment costs detailed in the tables above.
26 Table of Contents Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses for 2016 were $463.0million, an increase of $14.4million or 3.2%, compared with $448.6million in 2015. As a percentage of net sales, SG&A expenses were 12.1% for 2016, compared with 11.3% in 2015. Selling expenses for 2016 were $410.6million, an increase of $11.1million or 2.8%, compared with $399.5million in 2015. The selling expenses increase was due primarily to business acquisitions. Selling expenses, as a percentage of net sales, increased to 10.7% for 2016, compared with 10.1% in 2015.
Corporate administrative expenses for 2016 were $52.4million, an increase of $3.3million or 6.7%, compared with $49.1million in 2015. As a percentage of net sales, corporate administrative expenses were 1.4% for 2016, compared with 1.2% in 2015. For 2016 and 2015, corporate administrative expenses include $1.6million and $0.8million, respectively, of realignment costs noted above.
Consolidated operating income was $801.9million or 20.9% of net sales for 2016, a decrease of $105.8million or 11.7%, compared with $907.7million or 22.8% of net sales in 2015.
Interest expense was $94.3million for 2016, an increase of $2.5million or 2.7%, compared with $91.8million in 2015. The increase was primarily due to higher average borrowings to fund acquisitions and share repurchases.
The effective tax rate for 2016 was 26.1%, compared with 26.7% in 2015. The effective tax rates for 2016 and 2015 reflect the impact of foreign earnings, which are taxed at lower rates. The 2016 effective tax rate reflects tax benefits related to international and state tax planning initiatives and the release of uncertain tax position liabilities relating to certain statute expirations. The 2015 effective tax rate reflects the first quarter of 2015 release of uncertain tax position liabilities related to the conclusion of an advance thin capitalization agreement in the European Union, the second quarter of 2015 effective settlement of the U.S. research and development tax credit from the completion of an Internal Revenue Service examination for 2010 and 2011, and the third quarter of 2015 $7.5million of tax benefits related to the closure of an international subsidiary. See Note8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in PartII, Item8 of this Annual Report on Form10-K for further details.
Net income for 2016 was $512.2million, a decrease of $78.7million or 13.3%, compared with $590.9million in 2015. The 2016 realignment costs and the 2016 impairment charge reduced 2016 net income by $17.0million and $8.6million, respectively. The 2015 realignment costs reduced 2015 net income by $24.7million.
Diluted earnings per share for 2016 were $2.19, a decrease of $0.26 or 10.6%, compared with $2.45 per diluted share in 2015. The 2016 realignment costs and the 2016 impairment charge had the effect of reducing 2016 diluted earnings per share by $0.07 and $0.04, respectively. The 2015 realignment costs had the effect of reducing 2015 diluted earnings per share by $0.10.
Segment Results EIGs net sales totaled $2,360.3million for 2016, a decrease of $56.9million or 2.4%, compared with $2,417.2million in 2015. The net sales decrease was due to a 7% organic sales decline, driven largely by the Companys process businesses that have exposure to oil and gas markets, partially offset by a 5% increase from the 2016 acquisitions of NuInstruments, Brookfield and ESP/SurgeX and 2015 acquisition of Surface Vision.
EIGs operating income was $577.7million for 2016, a decrease of $61.7million or 9.6%, compared with $639.4million in 2015. EIGs operating margins were 24.5% of net sales for 2016, compared with 26.5% of net sales in 2015. The decrease in EIG segment operating income and segment operating margins for 2016 resulted primarily from the decrease in net sales noted above and a $20.5million increase in depreciation and amortization expense, which included a $9.2million impairment charge. The 2016 impairment charge negatively 27 Table of Contents impacted EIG segment operating margins by approximately 40basis points. EIG segment operating income and segment operating margins for 2016 and 2015 include the impact of the realignment costs detailed in the tables above.
EMGs net sales totaled $1,479.8million for 2016, a decrease of $77.3million or 5.0%, compared with $1,557.1million in 2015. The net sales decrease was due to a 6% organic sales decline, driven largely by weakness in the Companys engineered materials, interconnects and packaging businesses, and an unfavorable 1% effect of foreign currency translation, partially offset by a 2% increase from the 2016 acquisition of Laserage and 2015 acquisition of Global Tubes.
EMGs operating income was $277.9million for 2016, a decrease of $40.2million or 12.6%, compared with $318.1million in 2015. EMGs operating margins were 18.8% of net sales for 2016, compared with 20.4% of net sales in 2015. The decrease in EMG segment operating income and segment operating margins for 2016 resulted primarily from the decrease in net sales noted above and a $9.2million increase in depreciation and amortization expense, which included a $4.7million impairment charge. The 2016 impairment charge negatively impacted EMG segment operating margins by approximately 30basis points. EMG segment operating income and segment operating margins for 2016 and 2015 include the impact of the realignment costs detailed in the tables above.
Results of operations for the fourth quarter of 2016 compared with the fourth quarter of 2015 Net sales for the fourth quarter of 2016 were $973.0million, a decrease of $15.0million or 1.5%, compared with net sales of $988.0million for the fourth quarter of 2015. The decrease in net sales for the fourth quarter of 2016 was due to a 4% organic sales decline and an unfavorable 1% effect of foreign currency translation, partially offset by a 3% increase from acquisitions.
Segment operating income for the fourth quarter of 2016 was $187.8million, a decrease of $34.0million or 15.3%, compared with segment operating income of $221.8million for the fourth quarter of 2015. Segment operating income, as a percentage of net sales, decreased to 19.3% for the fourth quarter of 2016, compared with 22.5% for the fourth quarter of 2015. The decrease in segment operating income and segment operating margins for the fourth quarter of 2016 resulted primarily from the decrease in net sales noted above and a $17.2million increase in depreciation and amortization expense, which included a $13.9million non-cash impairment charge related to certain of the Companys trade names ($9.2million impacted EIG and $4.7million impacted EMG). The fourth quarter of 2016 impairment charge negatively impacted segment operating margins by approximately 140basis points. Segment operating income and segment operating margins for the fourth quarter of 2016 and 2015 include the impact of the realignment costs detailed in the tables above.
Cost of sales for the fourth quarter of 2016 was $681.1million or 70.0% of net sales, an increase of $14.8million or 2.2%, compared with $666.3million or 67.4% of net sales for the fourth quarter of 2015. The cost of sales increase and the corresponding increase in cost of sales as a percentage of sales were primarily due to the net sales decrease noted above and a $17.2million increase in depreciation and amortization expense, which included the fourth quarter of 2016 impairment charge of $13.9million noted above. Cost of sales for the fourth quarter of 2016 and 2015 include the impact of the realignment costs detailed in the tables above.
Net income for the fourth quarter of 2016 was $109.1million, a decrease of $27.7million or 20.2%, compared with $136.8million for the fourth quarter of 2015. The fourth quarter of 2016 realignment costs and fourth quarter of 2016 impairment charge reduced the fourth quarter of 2016 net income by $17.0million and $8.6million, respectively. The fourth quarter of 2015 realignment costs reduced the fourth quarter of 2015 net income by $13.9million.
Diluted earnings per share for the fourth quarter of 2016 were $0.47, a decrease of $0.10 or 17.5%, compared with $0.57 per diluted share for the fourth quarter of 2015. The fourth quarter of 2016 realignment 28 Table of Contents costs and fourth quarter of 2016 impairment charge had the effect of reducing the fourth quarter of 2016 diluted earnings per share by $0.07 and $0.04, respectively. The fourth quarter of 2015 realignment costs had the effect of reducing the fourth quarter of 2015 diluted earnings per share by $0.06.
Segment Results EIGs net sales totaled $616.0million for the fourth quarter of 2016, a decrease of $12.4million or 2.0%, compared with $628.4million for the fourth quarter of 2015. The net sales decrease was due to a 6% organic sales decline, driven largely by the Companys process businesses with exposure to oil and gas markets, and an unfavorable 1% effect of foreign currency translation, partially offset by a 5% increase from the 2016 acquisitions of NuInstruments, Brookfield and ESP/SurgeX.
EIGs operating income was $141.1million for the fourth quarter of 2016, a decrease of $20.6million or 12.7%, compared with $161.7million for the fourth quarter of 2015. EIGs operating margins were 22.9% of net sales for the fourth quarter of 2016, compared with 25.7% of net sales for the fourth quarter of 2015. The decrease in EIG segment operating income and segment operating margins for the fourth quarter of 2016 resulted primarily from the decrease in net sales noted above and an $11.0million increase in depreciation and amortization expense, which included a $9.2million impairment charge. The fourth quarter of 2016 impairment charge negatively impacted EIG segment operating margins by approximately 150basis points. EIG segment operating income and segment operating margins for the fourth quarter of 2016 and 2015 include the impact of the realignment costs detailed in the tables above.
EMGs net sales totaled $356.9million for the fourth quarter of 2016, a decrease of $2.7million or 0.8%, compared with $359.6million for the fourth quarter of 2015. The net sales decrease was due to an unfavorable 2% effect of foreign currency translation, partially offset by a 1% increase from the 2016 acquisition of Laserage. Organic sales were flat quarter over quarter.
EMGs operating income was $46.7million for the fourth quarter of 2016, a decrease of $13.5million or 22.4%, compared with $60.2million for the fourth quarter of 2015. EMGs operating margins were 13.1% of net sales for the fourth quarter of 2016, compared with 16.7% of net sales for the fourth quarter of 2015. The decrease in EMG segment operating income and segment operating margins for the fourth quarter of 2016 resulted primarily from the decrease in net sales noted above and a $6.2million increase in depreciation and amortization expense, which included a $4.7million impairment charge. The fourth quarter of 2016 impairment charge negatively impacted EMG segment operating margins by approximately 130basis points. EMG segment operating income and segment operating margins for the fourth quarter of 2016 and 2015 include the impact of the realignment costs detailed in the tables above.
Results of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared with the year ended December 31, 2014 In 2015, the Company established records for operating income, operating income margins, net income and diluted earnings per share. Contributions from the acquisitions completed in 2015 and the acquisitions of Amptek,Inc. in August2014 and ZygoCorporation in June2014, as well as the Companys Operational Excellence initiatives had a positive impact on 2015 results.
Net sales for 2015 were $3,974.3million, a decrease of $47.7million or 1.2%, compared with net sales of $4,022.0million in 2014. EIG net sales were $2,417.2million in 2015 or essentially flat on a percentage basis, compared with $2,421.6million in 2014. EMG net sales were $1,557.1million in 2015, a decrease of 2.7%, compared with $1,600.3million in 2014. The decrease in net sales for 2015 was due to an unfavorable 4% effect of foreign currency translation and 1% organic sales decline, partially offset by a 4% increase from acquisitions.
Total international sales for 2015 were $2,054.7million or 51.7% of net sales, a decrease of $141.5million or 6.4%, compared with international sales of $2,196.2 million or 54.6% of net sales in 2014. The $141.5million decrease in international sales was primarily driven by a weak global economy, as well as the foreign currency 29 Table of Contents translation headwind noted above. Both reportable segments of the Company maintain strong international sales presences in Europe and Asia. Export shipments from the United States, which are included in total international sales, were $1,090.7million in 2015, a decrease of $57.4million or 5.0%, compared with $1,148.1million in 2014. Export shipments decreased primarily due to a weak global economy, as well as the competitive impacts of a strong U.S. dollar.
Orders for 2015 were $3,924.7million, a decrease of $154.6million or 3.8%, compared with $4,079.3million in 2014. The decrease in orders for 2015 was due to an unfavorable 4% effect of foreign currency translation and organic order decline of approximately 3% resulting from a weak global economy, partially offset by a 3% increase from acquisitions. As a result, the Companys backlog of unfilled orders at December31, 2015 was $1,147.8million, a decrease of $49.5million or 4.1%, compared with $1,197.3million at December31, 2014.
The Company recorded 2015 realignment costs totaling $36.6million, with $15.9million recorded in the first quarter of 2015 and $20.7million recorded in the fourth quarter of 2015 (the 2015 realignment costs). The 2015 realignment costs primarily related to reductions in workforce in response to the impact of a weak global economy on certain of the Companys businesses, as well as the effects of a continued strong U.S.dollar. See Note18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in PartII, Item8 of this Annual Report on Form10-K for further details.
The 2015 realignment costs were reported in the consolidated statement of income as follows:  $35.8million in Cost of sales, with $15.8million recorded in the first quarter of 2015 and $20.0million recorded in the fourth quarter of 2015; and  $0.8million in Selling, general and administrative expenses, with $0.1million recorded in the first quarter of 2015 and $0.7million recorded in the fourth quarter of 2015.
Total segment operating income for 2015 included pre-tax realignment costs totaling $35.8million, with $15.8million recorded in the first quarter of 2015 and $20.0million recorded in the fourth quarter of 2015. The 2015 realignment costs were reported as follows:  $18.5million in EIG operating income, with $9.3million recorded in both the first and fourth quarters of 2015; and  $17.3million in EMG operating income, with $6.5million recorded in the first quarter of 2015 and $10.8million recorded in the fourth quarter of 2015.
Total segment operating margins for 2015 were negatively impacted by approximately 90basis points due to the 2015 realignment costs. The 2015 realignment costs impacted segment operating margins as follows:  Approximate 70basis point negative impact on EIGs 2015 operating margins; and  Approximate 110basis point negative impact on EMGs 2015 operating margins.
The expected annualized cash savings from the 2015 realignment costs is expected to be approximately $90million, with $40million realized in 2015 and approximately $75million expected to be realized in 2016.
Segment operating income for 2015 was $957.5million, an increase of $9.5million or 1.0%, compared with segment operating income of $948.0million in 2014. The increase in segment operating income resulted primarily from the acquisitions noted above, as well as the benefits of the Companys Operational Excellence initiatives, partially offset by the 2015 realignment costs described above. Segment operating income for 2014 included $18.9million in Zygo integration costs, comprised of $10.4million in severance charges ($9.1million recorded in the third quarter of 2014 and $1.3million recorded in the fourth quarter of 2014), a $4.5million fair value inventory adjustment recorded in the third quarter of 2014 and $4.0million in other 30 Table of Contents charges recorded in the fourth quarter of 2014, related to the Zygo acquisition. Segment operating income, as a percentage of net sales, increased to 24.1% in 2015, compared with 23.6% in 2014. The increase in segment operating margins resulted primarily from the benefits of the Companys Operational Excellence initiatives, partially offset by the impact of the 2015 realignment costs noted above. Segment operating margins for 2014 were negatively impacted by approximately 40basis points due to the Zygo integration costs noted above.
Cost of sales for 2015 was $2,618.0million or 65.9% of net sales, a decrease of $42.7million or 1.6%, compared with $2,660.7million or 66.2% of net sales for 2014. The cost of sales decrease and the corresponding decrease in cost of sales as a percentage of sales were primarily due to the net sales decrease noted above, the impact of foreign currency translation, as well as cost containment initiatives, which offset the 2015 realignment costs described above. Cost of sales for 2014 included $18.9million of Zygo integration costs described above.
SG&A expenses for 2015 were $448.6million, a decrease of $14.0million or 3.0%, compared with $462.6million in 2014. As a percentage of net sales, SG&A expenses were 11.3% for 2015, compared with 11.5% in 2014. Selling expenses for 2015 were $399.5million, a decrease of $14.3million or 3.5%, compared with $413.8million in 2014. Selling expenses, as a percentage of net sales, decreased to 10.1% for 2015, compared with 10.3% in 2014. The selling expenses decrease and the corresponding decrease in selling expenses as a percentage of sales were primarily due to cost containment initiatives and the impact of foreign currency translation.
Corporate administrative expenses for 2015 were $49.1million or essentially flat, compared with $48.8million in 2014. As a percentage of net sales, corporate administrative expenses were 1.2% for both 2015 and 2014.
Consolidated operating income was $907.7million or 22.8% of net sales for 2015, an increase of $9.1million or 1.0%, compared with $898.6million or 22.3% of net sales in 2014.
Interest expense was $91.8million for 2015, an increase of $11.9million or 14.9%, compared with $79.9million in 2014. The increase was due to the impact of private placement senior notes funded in the second and third quarters of 2015 and the third quarter of 2014.
Other expenses, net were $9.5million for 2015, a decrease of $4.3million, compared with $13.8million in 2014. Other expenses, net for 2015 benefited by lower acquisition-related expenses and the favorable impact from foreign currency translation. Other expenses, net for 2014 included an $8.0million insurance policy gain in the fourth quarter of 2014 and a $5.5million reversal of an insurance policy receivable related to a specific uncertain tax position liability of an acquired entity in the third quarter of 2014.
The effective tax rate for 2015 was 26.7%, compared with 27.4% in 2014. The effective tax rates for 2015 and 2014 reflect the impact of foreign earnings, which are taxed at lower rates. The 2015 effective tax rate reflects the first quarter of 2015 release of uncertain tax position liabilities related to the conclusion of an advance thin capitalization agreement in the European Union, the second quarter of 2015 effective settlement of the U.S. research and development tax credit from the completion of an Internal Revenue Service examination for 2010 and 2011, and the third quarter of 2015 $7.5million of tax benefits related to the closure of an international subsidiary. The 2014 effective tax rate reflects a release of $12.9million of uncertain tax position liabilities related to an acquired entity due to the final closure of a tax year and foreign tax credit benefit on amounts repatriated during the year. See Note8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in PartII, Item8 of this Annual Report on Form10-K for further details.
Net income for 2015 was $590.9million, an increase of $6.4million or 1.1%, compared with $584.5million in 2014. The 2015 realignment costs reduced 2015 net income by $24.7million. The Zygo integration costs reduced 2014 net income by $13.9million.
31 Table of Contents Diluted earnings per share for 2015 were $2.45, an increase of $0.08 or 3.4%, compared with $2.37 per diluted share in 2014. The 2015 realignment costs had the effect of reducing 2015 diluted earnings per share by $0.10. The Zygo integration costs had the effect of reducing 2014 diluted earnings per share by $0.05.
Segment Results EIGs net sales totaled $2,417.2million for 2015, a decrease of $4.4million or essentially flat on a percentage basis, compared with $2,421.6million in 2014. The net sales decrease was due to an unfavorable 3% effect of foreign currency translation and 1% organic sales decline, offset by a 4% increase from the 2015 acquisition of Surface Vision and the 2014 acquisitions of Amptek and Zygo.
EIGs operating income was $639.4million for 2015, an increase of $26.4million or 4.3%, compared with $613.0million in 2014. EIGs increase in operating income was primarily due to the Groups Operational Excellence initiatives, partially offset by the 2015 realignment costs. EIGs 2014 operating income included $18.9million of Zygo integration costs. EIGs operating margins were 26.5% of net sales for 2015, compared with 25.3% of net sales in 2014. EIGs increase in operating margins resulted primarily from the benefits of the Groups Operational Excellence initiatives, partially offset by the impact of the 2015 realignment costs noted above. EIGs 2014 operating margins were negatively impacted by approximately 80basis points due to the Zygo integration costs noted above.
EMGs net sales totaled $1,557.1million for 2015, a decrease of $43.2million or 2.7%, compared with $1,600.3million in 2014. The net sales decrease was due to an unfavorable 4% effect of foreign currency translation and 2% organic sales decline, partially offset by a 4% increase from the 2015 acquisition of Global Tubes.
EMGs operating income was $318.1million for 2015, a decrease of $16.9million or 5.0%, compared with $335.0million in 2014. EMGs decrease in operating income was primarily due to the lower sales noted above and the 2015 realignment costs, partially offset by the benefits of the Groups Operational Excellence initiatives. EMGs operating margins were 20.4% of net sales for 2015, compared with 20.9% of net sales in 2014. EMGs decrease in operating margins resulted primarily from the impact of the 2015 realignment costs noted above, partially offset by the benefits of the Groups Operational Excellence initiatives.
Results of operations for the fourth quarter of 2015 compared with the fourth quarter of 2014 Net sales for the fourth quarter of 2015 were $988.0million, a decrease of $36.1million or 3.5%, compared with net sales of $1,024.1million for the fourth quarter of 2014. The decrease in net sales for the fourth quarter of 2015 was due to a 4% organic sales decline and an unfavorable 3% effect of foreign currency translation, partially offset by a 3% increase from acquisitions.
Segment operating income for the fourth quarter of 2015 was $221.8million, a decrease of $18.1million or 7.5%, compared with segment operating income of $239.9million for the fourth quarter of 2014. The decrease in segment operating income was primarily due to the lower sales noted above and included $20.0million of fourth quarter of 2015 realignment costs, partially offset by the acquisitions noted above, as well as the benefits of the Groups Operational Excellence initiatives. Segment operating income for the fourth quarter of 2014 included $5.2million in Zygo integration costs, comprised of $1.3million in severance charges and $4.0million in other charges, related to the Zygo acquisition. Segment operating income, as a percentage of net sales, decreased to 22.5% for the fourth quarter of 2015, compared with 23.4% for the fourth quarter of 2014. In the fourth quarter of 2015, the benefits of the Groups Operational Excellence initiatives, partially offset the approximate 200basis point negative impact from the fourth quarter of 2015 realignment costs noted above. Segment operating margins for the fourth quarter of 2014 were negatively impacted by approximately 50basis points due to the fourth quarter of 2014 Zygo integration costs noted above.
32 Table of Contents Cost of sales for the fourth quarter of 2015 was $666.3million or 67.4% of net sales, a decrease of $13.3million or 2.0%, compared with $679.6million or 66.4% of net sales for the fourth quarter of 2014. The cost of sales decrease was primarily due to the net sales decrease noted above, the impact of foreign currency translation, as well as cost containment initiatives, which offset the fourth quarter of 2015 realignment costs described above. Cost of sales for the fourth quarter of 2014 included $5.2million of Zygo integration costs described above.
Net income for the fourth quarter of 2015 was $136.8million, a decrease of $15.2million or 10.0%, compared with $152.0million for the fourth quarter of 2014. The fourth quarter of 2015 realignment costs reduced the fourth quarter of 2015 net income by $13.9million. The fourth quarter of 2014 Zygo integration costs reduced the fourth quarter of 2014 net income by $3.2million.
Diluted earnings per share for the fourth quarter of 2015 were $0.57, a decrease of $0.05 or 8.1%, compared with $0.62 per diluted share for the fourth quarter of 2014. The fourth quarter of 2015 realignment costs had the effect of reducing the fourth quarter of 2015 diluted earnings per share by $0.06. The fourth quarter of 2014 Zygo integration costs had the effect of reducing the fourth quarter of 2014 diluted earnings per share by $0.01.
Segment Results EIGs net sales totaled $628.4million for the fourth quarter of 2015, a decrease of $16.0million or 2.5%, compared with $644.4million for the fourth quarter of 2014. The net sales decrease was due to an unfavorable 3% effect of foreign currency translation and 2% organic sales decline, partially offset by a 2% increase from the 2015 acquisition of Surface Vision.
EIGs operating income was $161.7million for the fourth quarter of 2015, a decrease of $1.2million or 0.7%, compared with $162.9million for the fourth quarter of 2014. EIGs decrease in operating income was primarily due to the lower sales noted above and included $9.3million of fourth quarter of 2015 realignment costs, partially offset by the benefits of the Groups Operational Excellence initiatives. EIGs fourth quarter of 2014 operating income included $5.2million of Zygo integration costs. EIGs operating margins were 25.7% of net sales for the fourth quarter of 2015, compared with 25.3% of net sales for the fourth quarter of 2014. EIGs increase in operating margins resulted primarily from the benefits of the Groups Operational Excellence initiatives, partially offset by the approximate 150basis point negative impact from the fourth quarter of 2015 realignment costs noted above. EIGs fourth quarter of 2014 operating margins were negatively impacted by approximately 80basis points due to the fourth quarter of 2014 Zygo integration costs noted above.
EMGs net sales totaled $359.6million for the fourth quarter of 2015, a decrease of $20.2million or 5.3%, compared with $379.8million for the fourth quarter of 2014. The net sales decrease was due to an 8% organic sales decline and an unfavorable 3% effect of foreign currency translation, partially offset by a 5% increase from the 2015 acquisition of Global Tubes.
EMGs operating income was $60.2million for the fourth quarter of 2015, a decrease of $16.8million or 21.8%, compared with $77.0million for the fourth quarter of 2014. EMGs decrease in operating income was primarily due to the lower sales noted above and included $10.8million of fourth quarter of 2015 realignment costs, partially offset by the benefits of the Groups Operational Excellence initiatives. EMGs operating margins were 16.7% of net sales for the fourth quarter of 2015, compared with 20.3% of net sales for the fourth quarter of 2014. EMGs fourth quarter of 2015 operating margins were negatively impacted by approximately 300basis points due to the fourth quarter of 2015 realignment costs noted above.
Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash provided by operating activities totaled $756.8million in 2016, an increase of $84.3million or 12.5%, compared with $672.5million in 2015. The increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to 33 Table of Contents the $48.4million reduction in defined benefit pension plan contributions, driven by a $50.0million contribution to the Companys U.S. defined benefit pension plans in the first quarter of 2015, and lower overall operating working capital levels driven by the Companys continued focus on operating working capital management.
Free cash flow (cash flow provided by operating activities less capital expenditures) was $693.6million in 2016, compared with $603.5million in 2015. EBITDA (earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization) was $966.0million in 2016, compared with $1,046.9million in 2015. Free cash flow and EBITDA are presented because the Company is aware that they are measures used by third parties in evaluating the Company. (See the Notes to Selected Financial Data included in Item6 in this Annual Report on Form10-K for a reconciliation of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) measures to comparable non-GAAP measures).
Cash used for investing activities totaled $452.4million in 2016, compared with $425.6million in 2015. In 2016, the Company paid $391.4million, net of cash acquired, to acquire Laserage in October2016, HSFoils and NuInstruments in July2016 and Brookfield and ESP/SurgeX in January2016. In 2015, the Company paid $356.5million, net of cash acquired, to acquire Surface Vison in July2015 and Global Tubes in May2015. Additions to property, plant and equipment totaled $63.3million in 2016, compared with $69.1million in 2015.
Cash provided by financing activities totaled $57.1million in 2016, compared with $217.0million of cash used for financing activities in 2015. At December31, 2016, total debt, net was $2,341.6million, compared with $1,938.0million at December31, 2015. In 2016, short-term borrowings decreased $315.7million, compared with an increase of $226.8million in 2015. In 2016, long-term borrowings increased $772.2million, compared with an increase of $18.0million in 2015.
In October2016, the Company completed a private placement agreement to sell 500million Euros and 225million British pounds in senior notes to a group of institutional investors (the 2016 Private Placement). There were two funding dates under the 2016 Private Placement. The first funding occurred in October2016 for 500million Euros ($546.8million), consisting of 300million Euros ($328.1million) in aggregate principal amount of 1.34% senior notes due October2026 and 200million Euros ($218.7million) in aggregate principal amount of 1.53% senior notes due October2028. The second funding occurred in November2016 for 225million British pounds ($274.1million), consisting of 150million British pounds ($182.7million) in aggregate principal amount of 2.59% senior notes due November2028 and 75million British pounds ($91.4million) in aggregate principal amount of 2.70% senior notes due November2031. The 2016 Private Placement senior notes carry a weighted average interest rate of 1.82% and are subject to certain customary covenants, including financial covenants that, among other things, require the Company to maintain certain debt-to-EBITDA (earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization) and interest coverage ratios. The proceeds from the first funding of the 2016 Private Placement were used to pay down domestic borrowings under the Companys revolving credit facility. The proceeds from the second funding of the 2016 Private Placement were used to pay down, at maturity, a 40million British pound ($48.7million) 5.99% senior note in November2016 and provides the Company with additional financial flexibility to support its growth plans, including its acquisition strategy.
In March2016, the Company along with certain of its foreign subsidiaries amended and restated its credit agreement dated as of September22, 2011 (the Credit Agreement). The Credit Agreement amends and restates the Companys existing $700million revolving credit facility, which was due to expire in December2018. The Credit Agreement consists of a five-year revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $850million with a final maturity date in March2021. The revolving credit facility total borrowing capacity excludes an accordion feature that permits the Company to request up to an additional $300million in revolving credit commitments at any time during the life of the Credit Agreement under certain conditions. Interest rates on outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility are at the applicable benchmark rate plus a negotiated spread or at the U.S.prime rate. The revolving credit facility provides the Company with additional financial flexibility to support its growth plans, including its acquisition strategy. At December31, 2016, the Company had available borrowing capacity of $1,117.3million under its revolving credit facility, including the $300million accordion feature.
34 Table of Contents In the fourth quarter of 2017, $270 million of 6.20% senior notes will mature and become payable. The debt-to-capital ratio was 41.8% at December31, 2016, compared with 37.3% at December31, 2015. The net debt-to-capital ratio (total debt, net less cash and cash equivalents divided by the sum of net debt and stockholders equity) was 33.3% at December31, 2016, compared with 32.4% at December31, 2015. The net debt-to-capital ratio is presented because the Company is aware that this measure is used by third parties in evaluating the Company. (See the Notes to Selected Financial Data included in Item6 in this Annual Report on Form10-K for a reconciliation of U.S.GAAP measures to comparable non-GAAP measures).
In 2016, the Company repurchased approximately 7,099,000shares of its common stock for $336.1million, compared with $435.4million used for repurchases of approximately 7,978,000shares in 2015. On November2, 2016, the Companys Board of Directors approved an increase of $400million in the authorization for the repurchase of the Companys common stock. At December31, 2016, $375.6million was available under the Companys Board of Directors authorization for future share repurchases.
Additional financing activities for 2016 include cash dividends paid of $83.3million, compared with $86.0million in 2015. Proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options were $17.6 million in 2016, compared with $39.2million in 2015.
As a result of all of the Companys cash flow activities in 2016, cash and cash equivalents at December31, 2016 totaled $717.3million, compared with $381.0million at December31, 2015. At December31, 2016, the Company had $481.6million in cash outside the United States, compared with $357.2million at December31, 2015. The Company utilizes this cash to fund its international operations, as well as to acquire international businesses. In July2016, the Company acquired HSFoils and NuInstruments for approximately $65million utilizing cash outside the United States. The Company is in compliance with all covenants, including financial covenants, for all of its debt agreements. The Company believes it has sufficient cash-generating capabilities from domestic and unrestricted foreign sources, available credit facilities and access to long-term capital funds to enable it to meet its operating needs and contractual obligations in the foreseeable future.
Subsequent Events In January 2017, the Company contributed $50.1million to its defined benefit pension plans, with $40.0million contributed to U.S. defined benefit pension plans and $10.1million contributed to foreign defined benefit pension plans.
In February2017, the Company acquired Rauland-Borg for approximately $340million in cash using available cash as well as borrowings under its revolving credit facility, with a potential $30million contingent payment due upon the achievement of certain milestones.
35 Table of Contents The following table summarizes AMETEKs contractual cash obligations and the effect such obligations are expected to have on the Companys liquidity and cash flows in future years at December31, 2016.
Payments Due Contractual Obligations (1) Total LessThan One Year Oneto Three Years Fourto Five Years AfterFive Years (In millions) Long-term debt borrowings (2) $ 2,333.2 $ 270.0 $ 405.0 $ 152.9 $ 1,505.3 Capital lease (3) 4.7 0.9 3.8   Other indebtedness 9.9 9.9    Total debt (4) 2,347.8 280.8 408.8 152.9 1,505.3 Interest on long-term fixed-rate debt 503.8 90.0 118.9 85.1 209.8 Noncancellable operating leases (5) 143.5 33.0 44.6 26.7 39.2 Purchase obligations (6 ) 289.1 273.7 14.8 0.4 0.2 Restructuring and other 29.9 26.0 3.9   Total $ 3,314.1 $ 703.5 $ 591.0 $ 265.1 $ 1,754.5 (1) The liability for uncertain tax positions was not included in the table of contractual obligations as of December31, 2016 because the timing of the settlements of these uncertain tax positions cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. See Note8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in PartII, Item8 of this Annual Report on Form10-K for further details.
(2) See Note9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in PartII, Item8 of this Annual Report on Form10-K for further details.
(3) Represents a capital lease for a building and land associated with the CamecaSAS acquisition. The lease has a term of 12years, which began in July2006, and is payable quarterly.
(4) Excludes debt issuance costs of $6.3million, of which $1.9million is classified as current and $4.4 million is classified as long-term. See Note9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in PartII, Item8 of this Annual Report on Form10-K for further details.
(5) The leases expire over a range of years from 2017 to 2082 with renewal or purchase options, subject to various terms and conditions, contained in most of the leases.
(6) Purchase obligations primarily consist of contractual commitments to purchase certain inventories at fixed prices.
Other Commitments The Company has standby letters of credit and surety bonds of $37.4million related to performance and payment guarantees at December31, 2016. Based on experience with these arrangements, the Company believes that any obligations that may arise will not be material to its financial position.
Critical Accounting Policies The Company has identified its critical accounting policies as those accounting policies that can have a significant impact on the presentation of the Companys financial condition and results of operations and that require the use of complex and subjective estimates based on the Companys historical experience and managements judgment. Because of the uncertainty inherent in such estimates, actual results may differ materially from the estimates used. The consolidated financial statements and related notes contain information that is pertinent to the Companys accounting policies and to Managements Discussion and Analysis. The information that follows represents additional specific disclosures about the Companys accounting policies regarding risks, estimates, subjective decisions or assessments whereby materially different financial condition 36 Table of Contents and results of operations could have been reported had different assumptions been used or different conditions existed. Primary disclosure of the Companys significant accounting policies is in Note1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in PartII, Item8 of this Annual Report on Form10-K.
Revenue Recognition .The Company recognizes revenue on product sales in the period when the sales process is complete. This generally occurs when products are shipped to the customer in accordance with terms of an agreement of sale, under which title and risk of loss have been transferred, collectability is reasonably assured and pricing is fixed or determinable. For a small percentage of sales where title and risk of loss passes at point of delivery, the Company recognizes revenue upon delivery to the customer, assuming all other criteria for revenue recognition are met. The Companys policy with respect to sales returns and allowances generally provides that the customer may not return products or be given allowances, except at the Companys option. The Company has agreements with distributors that do not provide expanded rights of return for unsold products. The distributor purchases the product from the Company, at which time title and risk of loss transfers to the distributor. The Company does not offer substantial sales incentives and credits to its distributors other than volume discounts. The Company accounts for these sales incentives as a reduction of revenues when the sale is recognized in the consolidated statement of income. Accruals for sales returns, other allowances and estimated warranty costs are provided at the time revenue is recognized based on the Companys historical experience. At December31, 2016 and 2015, the accrual for future warranty obligations was $22.0million and $22.8million, respectively. The Companys expense for warranty obligations was $16.0million, $14.8million and $16.5million in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The warranty periods for products sold vary among the Companys operations, but generally do not exceed one year. The Company calculates its warranty expense provision based on its historical warranty experience and adjustments are made periodically to reflect actual warranty expenses. If actual future sales returns and allowances and warranty amounts are higher than the Companys historical experience, additional accruals may be required.
Accounts Receivable .The Company maintains allowances for estimated losses resulting from the inability of specific customers to meet their financial obligations to the Company. A specific allowance for doubtful accounts is recorded against the amount due from these customers. For all other customers, the Company recognizes allowance for doubtful accounts based on the length of time specific receivables are past due based on its historical experience. If the financial condition of the Companys customers were to deteriorate, resulting in their inability to make payments, additional allowances may be required. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $10.3million and $8.6million at December31, 2016 and 2015, respectively.
Inventories .The Company uses the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method of accounting, which approximates current replacement cost, for approximately 82% of its inventories at December31, 2016. The last-in, first-out (LIFO) method of accounting is used to determine cost for the remaining 18% of the Companys inventory at December31, 2016. For inventories where cost is determined by the LIFO method, the FIFO value would have been $18.4million and $19.4million higher than the LIFO value reported in the consolidated balance sheet at December31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The Company provides estimated inventory reserves for slow-moving and obsolete inventory based on current assessments about future demand, market conditions, customers who may be experiencing financial difficulties and related management initiatives. If these factors are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory reserves may be required.
Business Combinations .The Company allocates the purchase price of an acquired company, including when applicable, the fair value of contingent consideration between tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed from the acquired business based on their estimated fair values, with the residual of the purchase price recorded as goodwill. Third party appraisal firms and other consultants are engaged to assist management in determining the fair values of certain assets acquired and liabilities 37 Table of Contents assumed. Estimating fair values requires significant judgments, estimates and assumptions, including but not limited to: discount rates, future cash flows and the economic lives of trade names, technology, customer relationships, property, plant and equipment, as well as income taxes. These estimates are based on historical experience and information obtained from the management of the acquired companies, and are inherently uncertain.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets .Goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives, primarily trademarks and trade names, are not amortized; rather, they are tested for impairment at least annually. For the purpose of the goodwill impairment test, the Company can elect to perform a qualitative analysis to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair values of its reporting units are less than the respective carrying values of those reporting units. The Company elected to bypass performing the qualitative screen and performed the first step quantitative analysis of the goodwill impairment test in the current year. The Company may elect to perform the qualitative analysis in future periods. The first step in the quantitative process is to compare the carrying amount of the reporting units net assets to the fair value of the reporting unit. If the fair value exceeds the carrying value, no further evaluation is required and no impairment loss is recognized. If the carrying amount exceeds the fair value, then the second step must be completed, which involves allocating the fair value of the reporting unit to each asset and liability, with the excess being implied goodwill. An impairment loss occurs and would be required to be recorded if the amount of the recorded goodwill exceeds the implied goodwill.
The Company identifies its reporting units at the component level, which is one level below its operating segments. Generally, goodwill arises from acquisitions of specific operating companies and is assigned to the reporting unit in which a particular operating company resides. The Companys reporting units are composed of divisions that are one level below its operating segments and for which discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by segment management.
The Company principally relies on a discounted cash flow analysis to determine the fair value of each reporting unit, which considers forecasted cash flows discounted at an appropriate discount rate. The Company believes that market participants would use a discounted cash flow analysis to determine the fair value of its reporting units in a sale transaction. The annual goodwill impairment test requires the Company to make a number of assumptions and estimates concerning future levels of revenue growth, operating margins, depreciation, amortization and working capital requirements, which are based on the Companys long-range plan and are considered level 3 inputs. The Companys long-range plan is updated as part of its annual planning process and is reviewed and approved by management. The discount rate is an estimate of the overall after-tax rate of return required by a market participant whose weighted average cost of capital includes both equity and debt, including a risk premium. While the Company uses the best available information to prepare its cash flow and discount rate assumptions, actual future cash flows or market conditions could differ significantly resulting in future impairment charges related to recorded goodwill balances. While there are always changes in assumptions to reflect changing business and market conditions, the Companys overall methodology and the population of assumptions used have remained unchanged. In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the goodwill impairment test to changes in the fair value calculations, the Company applied a hypothetical 10% decrease in fair values of each reporting unit. The 2016 results (expressed as a percentage of carrying value for the respective reporting unit) showed that, despite the hypothetical 10% decrease in fair value, the fair values of the Companys reporting units still exceeded their respective carrying values by 32% to 707% for each of the Companys reporting units.
The impairment test for indefinite-lived intangibles other than goodwill (primarily trademarks and trade names) consists of a comparison of the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset to the carrying value of the asset as of the impairment testing date. The Company can elect to perform a qualitative analysis to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair values of its indefinite-lived intangible assets are less than the respective carrying values of those assets. The Company elected to bypass performing the 38 Table of Contents qualitative screen. The Company may elect to perform the qualitative analysis in future periods. The Company estimates the fair value of its indefinite-lived intangibles using the relief from royalty method using level 3 inputs. The Company believes the relief from royalty method is a widely used valuation technique for such assets. The fair value derived from the relief from royalty method is measured as the discounted cash flow savings realized from owning such trademarks and trade names and not having to pay a royalty for their use.
The Companys acquisitions have generally included a significant goodwill component and the Company expects to continue to make acquisitions. At December31, 2016, goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets totaled $3,341.6million or 47.1% of the Companys total assets. The Company completed its required annual impairment tests in the fourth quarter of 2016 and determined that the carrying values of the Companys goodwill were not impaired. The Company completed its required annual impairment tests in the fourth quarter of 2016 and determined that the carrying values of certain of the Companys trademarks and trade names with indefinite lives were impaired. During 2016, the Company recorded a $13.9million non-cash impairment charge related to certain of the Companys trade names. There can be no assurance that goodwill or indefinite-lived intangibles impairment will not occur in the future.
Other intangible assets with finite lives are evaluated for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. The carrying value of other intangible assets with finite lives is considered impaired when the total projected undiscounted cash flows from those assets are separately identifiable and are less than the carrying value. In that event, a loss is recognized based on the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of those assets. Fair value is determined primarily using present value techniques based on projected cash flows from the asset group.
Pensions .
The Company has U.S.and foreign defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans. The most significant elements in determining the Companys pension income or expense are the assumed pension liability discount rate and the expected return on plan assets. The pension discount rate reflects the current interest rate at which the pension liabilities could be settled at the valuation date. At the end of each year, the Company determines the assumed discount rate to be used to discount plan liabilities. In estimating this rate for 2016, the Company considered rates of return on high-quality, fixed-income investments that have maturities consistent with the anticipated funding requirements of the plan. The discount rate used in determining the 2016 pension cost was 4.80% for U.S.defined benefit pension plans and 3.62% for foreign plans. The discount rate used for determining the funded status of the plans at December31, 2016 and determining the 2017 defined benefit pension cost was 4.25% for U.S.plans and 2.56% for foreign plans. In estimating the U.S. and foreigndiscount rates, the Companys actuaries developed a customized discount rate appropriate to the plans projected benefit cash flow based on yields derived from a database of long-term bonds at consistent maturity dates. The Company used an expected long-term rate of return on plan assets for 2016 of 7.75% for U.S.defined benefit pension plans and 6.95% for foreign plans. In 2017, the Company will use 7.50% for the U.S. plans and 6.79% for the foreign plans. The Company determines the expected long-term rate of return based primarily on its expectation of future returns for the pension plans investments. Additionally, the Company considers historical returns on comparable fixed-income and equity investments, and adjusts its estimate as deemed appropriate. The rate of compensation increase used in determining the 2016 pension income for the U.S.plans was 3.75% and was 2.88% for the foreign plans. The U.S. plans rate of compensation increase will remain unchanged in 2017. The foreign plans rate of compensation increase will be 2.5% in 2017. In 2016, the Company recognized consolidated pre-tax pension income of $4.3million from its U.S.and foreign defined benefit pension plans, compared with pre-tax pension income of $9.8million recognized for these plans in 2015. The Company estimates its 2017 U.S. and foreign defined benefit pension pre-tax income to be approximately $4.3million.
39 Table of Contents All unrecognized prior service costs, remaining transition obligations or assets and actuarial gains and losses have been recognized, net of tax effects, as a charge to accumulated other comprehensive income in stockholders equity and will be amortized as a component of net periodic pension cost. The Company uses a measurement date of December31 (its fiscal year end) for its U.S. and foreigndefined benefit plans.
To fund the plans, the Company made cash contributions to its defined benefit pension plans in 2016, which totaled $6.8million, compared with $55.2million in 2015. The Company anticipates making approximately $52million to $56million in cash contributions to its defined benefit pension plans in 2017. The estimated cash contributions range includes $50.1million in cash contributions to its defined benefit pension plans in January2017, with $40.0million contributed to U.S. defined benefit pension plans and $10.1million contributed to foreign defined benefit pension plans.
Income Taxes.
The process of providing for income taxes and determining the related balance sheet accounts requires management to assess uncertainties, make judgments regarding outcomes and utilize estimates. The Company conducts a broad range of operations around the world and is therefore subject to complex tax regulations in numerous international taxing jurisdictions, resulting at times in tax audits, disputes and potential litigation, the outcome of which is uncertain. Management must make judgments currently about such uncertainties and determine estimates of the Companys tax assets and liabilities. To the extent the final outcome differs, future adjustments to the Companys tax assets and liabilities may be necessary.
The Company assesses the realizability of its deferred tax assets, taking into consideration the Companys forecast of future taxable income, available net operating loss carryforwards and available tax planning strategies that could be implemented to realize the deferred tax assets. Based on this assessment, management must evaluate the need for, and the amount of, valuation allowances against the Companys deferred tax assets. To the extent facts and circumstances change in the future, adjustments to the valuation allowances may be required.
The Company assesses the uncertainty in its tax positions, by applying a minimum recognition threshold which a tax position is required to meet before a tax benefit is recognized in the financial statements. Once the minimum threshold is met, using a more likely than not standard, a series of probability estimates is made for each item to properly measure and record a tax benefit. The tax benefit recorded is generally equal to the highest probable outcome that is more than 50% likely to be realized after full disclosure and resolution of a tax examination. The underlying probabilities are determined based on the best available objective evidence such as recent tax audit outcomes, published guidance, external expert opinion, or by analogy to the outcome of similar issues in the past. There can be no assurance that these estimates will ultimately be realized given continuous changes in tax policy, legislation and audit practice. The Company recognizes interest and penalties accrued related to uncertain tax positions in income tax expense.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASU2014-09) and modified the standard thereafter. The objective of ASU2014-09 is to establish a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and will supersede most of the existing revenue recognition guidance. The core principle of ASU2014-09 is that an entity recognizes revenue at the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
ASU2014-09 applies to all contracts with customers except those that are within the scope of other topics in the FASB Accounting Standards Codification.
40 Table of Contents ASU 2014-09 is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December15, 2017 and may be early adopted for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December15, 2016. The Company will adopt ASU2014-09 as of January1, 2018. The guidance permits adoption by retrospectively applying the guidance to each prior reporting period presented (full retrospective method) or prospectively applying the guidance and providing additional disclosures comparing results to previous guidance, with the cumulative effect of initially applying the guidance recognized in beginning retained earnings at the date of initial application (modified retrospective method). The Company is in the process of determining its method of adoption.
The Company has completed its initial assessment phase and is proceeding with its implementation plan. The initial assessment consisted of reviewing a representative sample of contracts, discussions with key stakeholders and cataloging potential impacts on the Companys operations, accounting policies, financial control and financial statements. The Companys initial assessment indicates the key changes in the standard that impact the Companys revenue recognition relate to the allocation of contract revenues between various products and services, the timing of when those revenues are recognized and the deferral of incremental costs to obtain a contract. Given the diversity of its commercial arrangements, the Company is continuing to determine the impact ASU2014-09 may have on its consolidated results of operations, financial position, cash flows and financial statement disclosures.
In February2015, the FASB issued ASUNo.2015-02, Amendments to the Consolidation Analysis (ASU2015-02).
ASU2015-02 is intended to improve targeted areas of consolidation guidance for legal entities such as limited partnerships, limited liability corporations, and securitization structures (collateralized debt obligations, collateralized loan obligations, and mortgage-backed security transactions).
ASU2015-02 makes specific amendments to the current consolidation guidance and ends the deferral granted to investment companies from applying the variable interest entities guidance. The Company adopted ASU2015-02 effective January1, 2016 and the adoption did not have a significant impact on the Companys consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
In April2015, the FASB issued ASUNo.2015-03, Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs (ASU2015-03).
ASU2015-03 requires debt issuance costs to be presented in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the associated debt liability. The Company retrospectively adopted ASU2015-03 effective January1, 2016 and the adoption did not have a significant impact on the Companys consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
In April2015, the FASB issued ASUNo.2015-05 , Customers Accounting for Fees Paid in a Cloud Computing Arrangement (ASU2015-05).
ASU2015-05 is intended to help entities evaluate the accounting for fees paid by a customer in a cloud computing arrangement. The guidance clarifies that customers should determine whether a cloud computing arrangement includes the license of software by applying the same guidance cloud service providers use to make this determination. The Company prospectively adopted ASU2015-05 effective January1, 2016 and the adoption did not have a significant impact on the Companys consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
In July2015, the FASB issued ASUNo.2015-11, Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory (ASU2015-11), which applies to inventory that is measured using first-in, first-out (FIFO) or average cost. As prescribed in this update, an entity should measure inventory that is within scope at the lower of cost and net realizable value, which is the estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal and transportation. Subsequent measurement is unchanged for inventory that is measured using last-in, first-out (LIFO).
ASU2015-11 is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December15, 2016, and should be applied prospectively with early adoption permitted at the beginning of an interim or annual reporting period. The Company does not expect the adoption of ASU2015-11 to have a significant impact on the Companys consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
41 Table of Contents In November2015, the FASB issued ASUNo.2015-17, Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes (ASU2015-17).
ASU2015-17 simplifies the presentation of deferred taxes by requiring deferred tax assets and liabilities be classified as noncurrent on the consolidated balance sheet.
ASU2015-17 is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December15, 2016.
ASU2015-17 may be adopted prospectively or retrospectively and early adoption is permitted. The Company does not expect the adoption of ASU2015-17 to have a significant impact on the Companys consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. The Company expects to prospectively adopt ASU2015-17.
In February2016, the FASB issued ASUNo.2016-02, Leases (ASU2016-02).
The new standard establishes a right-of-use model that requires a lessee to record a right-of-use asset and a lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with terms longer than twelve months. Leases will be classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the income statement.
ASU2016-02 is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December15, 2018.
ASU2016-02 is to be adopted using a modified retrospective approach and early adoption is permitted. The Company has not determined the impact ASU2016-02 may have on the Companys consolidated results of operations, financial position, cash flows and financial statement disclosures.
In March2016, the FASB issued ASUNo.2016-09, Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting (ASU2016-09).
ASU2016-09 includes changes to the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities and classification on the statement of cash flows.
ASU2016-09 is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December15, 2016 and early adoption is permitted. The Company is unable to estimate the impact of adoption as it is dependent upon future stock option exercises, which cannot be predicted. However, the Company does not expect the adoption of ASU2016-09 to have a significant impact on the Companys consolidated results of operations, financial position, cash flows and financial statement disclosures.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.2017-01, Clarifying the Definition of a Business (ASU2017-01).
ASU2017-01 provides a more robust framework to use in determining when a set of assets and activities is a business.
ASU2017-01 requires an entity to evaluate if substantially all of the fair value of the gross assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets; if so, the set of assets is not a business.
ASU2017-01 requires that, to be a business, the set must include, at a minimum, an input and a substantive process that together significantly contribute to the ability to create outputs.
ASU2017-01 is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December15, 2017.
ASU2017-01 will be applied prospectively to any transactions occurring within the period of adoption. Early adoption is permitted, including for interim or annual periods in which the financial statements have not been issued or made available for issuance. The Company has not determined the impact ASU2017-01 may have on the Companys consolidated results of operations, financial position, cash flows and financial statement disclosures.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASUNo.2017-04, Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment (ASU2017-04).
ASU2017-04 eliminates the requirement to calculate the implied fair value of goodwill (second step) to measure a goodwill impairment charge. Under the guidance, an impairment charge will be measured based on the excess of the reporting units carrying amount over its fair value (first step).
ASU2017-04 is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December15, 2019 and early adoption is permitted. The Company has not determined the impact ASU2017-04 may have on the Companys consolidated results of operations, financial position, cash flows and financial statement disclosures.
42 Table of Contents Internal Reinvestment Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures were $63.3million or 1.6% of net sales in 2016, compared with $69.1million or 1.7% of net sales in 2015. In 2016, 55% of capital expenditures were for improvements to existing equipment or additional equipment to increase productivity and expand capacity. Capital expenditures in 2017 are expected to approximate 2.0% of net sales, with a continued emphasis on spending to improve productivity.
Development and Engineering The Company is committed to, and has consistently invested in, research, development and engineering activities to design and develop new and improved products. Research, development and engineering costs before customer reimbursement were $200.8million in both 2016 and 2015 and $208.3million in 2014. Customer reimbursements in 2016, 2015 and 2014 were $7.2million, $6.9million and $8.9million, respectively. These amounts included research and development expenses of $112.0million, $116.3million and $119.3million in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. All such expenditures were directed toward the development of new products and processes and the improvement of existing products and processes.
Environmental Matters Certain historic processes in the manufacture of products have resulted in environmentally hazardous waste by-products as defined by federal and state laws and regulations. The Company believes these waste products were handled in compliance with regulations existing at that time. At December31, 2016, the Company is named a Potentially Responsible Party (PRP) at 13 non-AMETEK-owned former waste disposal or treatment sites (the non-owned sites). The Company is identified as a de minimis party in 12 of these sites based on the low volume of waste attributed to the Company relative to the amounts attributed to other named PRPs. In eight of these sites, the Company has reached a tentative agreement on the cost of the deminimis settlement to satisfy its obligation and is awaiting executed agreements. The tentatively agreed-to settlement amounts are fully reserved. In the other four sites, the Company is continuing to investigate the accuracy of the alleged volume attributed to the Company as estimated by the parties primarily responsible for remedial activity at the sites to establish an appropriate settlement amount. At the remaining site where the Company is a non-de minimis PRP, the Company is participating in the investigation and/or related required remediation as part of a PRP Group and reserves have been established sufficient to satisfy the Companys expected obligations. The Company historically has resolved these issues within established reserve levels and reasonably expects this result will continue. In addition to these non-owned sites, the Company has an ongoing practice of providing reserves for probable remediation activities at certain of its current or previously owned manufacturing locations (the owned sites). For claims and proceedings against the Company with respect to other environmental matters, reserves are established once the Company has determined that a loss is probable and estimable. This estimate is refined as the Company moves through the various stages of investigation, risk assessment, feasibility study and corrective action processes. In certain instances, the Company has developed a range of estimates for such costs and has recorded a liability based on the best estimate. It is reasonably possible that the actual cost of remediation of the individual sites could vary from the current estimates and the amounts accrued in the consolidated financial statements; however, the amounts of such variances are not expected to result in a material change to the consolidated financial statements. In estimating the Companys liability for remediation, the Company also considers the likely proportionate share of the anticipated remediation expense and the ability of the other PRPs to fulfill their obligations.
Total environmental reserves at December31, 2016 and 2015 were $28.4million and $30.5million, respectively, for both non-owned and owned sites. In 2016, the Company recorded $4.1million in reserves. Additionally, the Company spent $5.4million on environmental matters and the reserve decreased $0.8million due to foreign currency translation in 2016. The Companys reserves for environmental liabilities at 43 Table of Contents December31, 2016 and 2015 include reserves of $12.4million and $11.5million, respectively, for an owned site acquired in connection with the 2005 acquisition of HCC Industries (HCC). The Company is the designated performing party for the performance of remedial activities for one of several operating units making up a Superfund site in the SanGabriel Valley of California. The Company has obtained indemnifications and other financial assurances from the former owners of HCC related to the costs of the required remedial activities. At December31, 2016, the Company had $11.9million in receivables related to HCC for probable recoveries from third-party escrow funds and other committed third-party funds to support the required remediation. Also, the Company is indemnified by HCCs former owners for approximately $19million of additional costs.
The Company has agreements with other former owners of certain of its acquired businesses, as well as new owners of previously owned businesses. Under certain of the agreements, the former or new owners retained, or assumed and agreed to indemnify the Company against, certain environmental and other liabilities under certain circumstances. The Company and some of these other parties also carry insurance coverage for some environmental matters. To date, these parties have met their obligations in all material respects.
The Company believes it has established reserves which are sufficient to perform all known responsibilities under existing claims and consent orders. The Company has no reason to believe that other third parties would fail to perform their obligations in the future. In the opinion of management, based on presently available information and the Companys historical experience related to such matters, an adequate provision for probable costs has been made and the ultimate cost resulting from these actions is not expected to materially affect the consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows of the Company.
Market Risk The Companys primary exposures to market risk are fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices, which could impact its financial condition and results of operations. The Company addresses its exposure to these risks through its normal operating and financing activities. The Companys differentiated and global business activities help to reduce the impact that any particular market risk may have on its operating income as a whole.
The Companys short-term debt carries variable interest rates and generally its long-term debt carries fixed rates. These financial instruments are more fully described in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in PartII, Item8 of this Annual Report on Form10-K.
The foreign currencies to which the Company has the most significant exchange rate exposure are the Euro, the British pound, the Japanese yen, the Chinese renminbi, the Canadian dollar, the Mexican peso and the Swiss franc. Exposure to foreign currency rate fluctuation is modest, monitored, and when possible, mitigated through the use of local borrowings and occasional derivative financial instruments in the foreign currency affected. The effect of translating foreign subsidiaries balance sheets into U.S.dollars is included in other comprehensive income within stockholders equity. Foreign currency transactions have not had a significant effect on the operating results reported by the Company because revenues and costs associated with the revenues are generally transacted in the same foreign currencies.
The primary commodities to which the Company has market exposure are raw material purchases of nickel, aluminum, copper, steel, titanium and gold. Exposure to price changes in these commodities are generally mitigated through adjustments in selling prices of the ultimate product and purchase order pricing arrangements, although forward contracts are sometimes used to manage some of those exposures.
Based on a hypothetical ten percent adverse movement in interest rates, commodity prices or foreign currency exchange rates, the Companys best estimate is that the potential losses in future earnings, fair value of risk-sensitive financial instruments and cash flows are not material, although the actual effects may differ materially from the hypothetical analysis.
44 Table of Contents Forward-Looking Information Certain matters discussed in this Form10-K are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA), which involve risk and uncertainties that exist in the Companys operations and business environment and can be affected by inaccurate assumptions, or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many such factors will be important in determining the Companys actual future results. The Company wishes to take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the PSLRA by cautioning readers that numerous important factors, in some cases have caused, and in the future could cause, the Companys actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, the Company. Some, but not all, of the factors or uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from present expectations are set forth above and under Item 1A. Risk Factors. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, subsequent events or otherwise, unless required by the securities laws to do so.
Item7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Information concerning market risk is set forth under the heading Market Risk in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations herein.
45 Table of Contents Item8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Page Index to Financial Statements (Item 15(a) 1) Reports of Management 47 Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 48 Consolidated Statement of Income for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 50 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 51 Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2016 and 2015 52 Consolidated Statement of Stockholders Equity for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 53 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 54 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 55 Financial Statement Schedules (Item15(a) 2) Financial statement schedules have been omitted because either they are not applicable or the required information is included in the financial statements or the notes thereto.
46 Table of Contents Managements Responsibility for Financial Statements Management has prepared and is responsible for the integrity of the consolidated financial statements and related information. The statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied and include certain amounts based on managements best estimates and judgments. Historical financial information elsewhere in this report is consistent with that in the financial statements.
In meeting its responsibility for the reliability of the financial information, management maintains a system of internal accounting and disclosure controls, including an internal audit program. The system of controls provides for appropriate division of responsibility and the application of written policies and procedures. That system, which undergoes continual reevaluation, is designed to provide reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and records are adequate for the preparation of reliable financial data.
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. AMETEK,Inc. maintains a system of internal controls that is designed to provide reasonable assurance as to the fair and reliable preparation and presentation of the consolidated financial statements; however, there are inherent limitations in the effectiveness of any system of internal controls.
Management recognizes its responsibility for conducting the Companys activities according to the highest standards of personal and corporate conduct. That responsibility is characterized and reflected in a code of business conduct for all employees and in a financial code of ethics for the Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers, as well as in other key policy statements publicized throughout the Company.
The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, which is composed solely of independent directors who are not employees of the Company, meets with the independent registered public accounting firm, the internal auditors and management to satisfy itself that each is properly discharging its responsibilities. The report of the Audit Committee is included in the Companys Proxy Statement for the 2017Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Both the independent registered public accounting firm and the internal auditors have direct access to the Audit Committee.
The Companys independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, is engaged to render an opinion as to whether managements financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the Companys financial position and operating results. This report is included herein.
Managements Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting Management of the Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in the Exchange Act Rules13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f).
Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, AMETEK,Inc. conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2016 based on criteria established in Internal Control  Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework). Based on that evaluation, our management concluded that the Companys internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December31, 2016.
The Company acquired Brookfield Engineering Laboratories (Brookfield) and ESP/SurgeX in January2016, HSFoils and NuInstruments in July2016 and Laserage Technology Corporation (Laserage) in October2016. As permitted by the U.S.Securities and Exchange Commission staff interpretative guidance for newly acquired businesses, the Company excluded Brookfield, ESP/SurgeX, HSFoils, NuInstruments and Laserage from managements assessment of the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2016. In the aggregate, Brookfield, ESP/SurgeX, HSFoils, NuInstruments and Laserage constituted 5.9% of total assets as of December31, 2016 and 2.9% of net sales for the year then ended.
The Companys internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2016 has been audited by Ernst&YoungLLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report, which is included herein.
/s/ David A. Zapico /s/ William J. Burke Chief Executive Officer Executive Vice President  Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer February 23, 2017 47 Table of Contents REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of AMETEK, Inc.: We have audited AMETEK,Inc.s internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2016, based on criteria established in Internal Control  Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). AMETEK,Inc.s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Managements Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting . Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the companys internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
As indicated in the accompanying Managements Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting , managements assessment of and conclusion on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting did not include the internal controls of Brookfield, ESP/SurgeX, HSFoils, NuInstruments and Laserage , which are included in the 2016 consolidated financial statements of AMETEK,Inc. and constituted 5.9% of total assets as of December31, 2016 and 2.9% of net sales for the year then ended. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting of AMETEK,Inc. also did not include an evaluation of the internal control over financial reporting of Brookfield, ESP/SurgeX, HSFoils, NuInstruments and Laserage.
In our opinion, AMETEK,Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2016, based on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of AMETEK,Inc. as of December31, 2016 and 2015, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December31, 2016, and our report dated February23, 2017 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP Philadelphia, Pennsylvania February 23, 2017 48 Table of Contents REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of AMETEK, Inc.: We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of AMETEK,Inc. as of December31, 2016 and 2015, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December31, 2016. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Companys management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of AMETEK,Inc. at December31, 2016 and 2015, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December31, 2016, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), AMETEK,Inc.s internal control over financial reporting as of December31, 2016, based on criteria established in Internal Control  Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated February23, 2017 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP Philadelphia, Pennsylvania February 23, 2017 49 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
Consolidated Statement of Income (In thousands, except per share amounts) Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Net sales $ 3,840,087 $ 3,974,295 $ 4,021,964 Operating expenses: Cost of sales 2,575,220 2,617,987 2,660,741 Selling, general and administrative 462,970 448,592 462,637 Total operating expenses 3,038,190 3,066,579 3,123,378 Operating income 801,897 907,716 898,586 Other expenses: Interest expense (94,304 ) (91,795 ) (79,928 ) Other, net (14,490 ) (9,541 ) (13,826 ) Income before income taxes 693,103 806,380 804,832 Provision for income taxes 180,945 215,521 220,372 Net income $ 512,158 $ 590,859 $ 584,460 Basic earnings per share $ 2.20 $ 2.46 $ 2.39 Diluted earnings per share $ 2.19 $ 2.45 $ 2.37 Weighted average common shares outstanding: Basic shares 232,593 239,906 244,885 Diluted shares 233,730 241,586 247,102 See accompanying notes.
50 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (In thousands) Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Net income $ 512,158 $ 590,859 $ 584,460 Other comprehensive (loss) income: Amounts arising during the period  gains (losses), net of tax (expense) benefit: Foreign currency translation: Translation adjustments (68,774 ) (67,245 ) (59,712 ) Change in long-term intercompany notes (7,597 ) (51,235 ) (54,906 ) Net investment hedges, net of tax of $6,558, $3,432 and $4,961 in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively (12,179 ) (6,374 ) (9,213 ) Defined benefit pension plans: Net actuarial loss, net of tax of $17,450, $12,870 and $42,755 in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively (55,259 ) (21,002 ) (83,040 ) Amortization of net actuarial loss, net of tax of ($2,090), ($3,247) and ($1,650) in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively 6,618 6,137 2,834 Amortization of prior service costs, net of tax of $25, ($564) and ($753) in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively (79 ) 1,809 2,292 Unrealized holding gain (loss) on available-for-sale securities: Unrealized gain (loss), net of tax of ($275), $445 and ($48) in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively 512 (827 ) 90 Other comprehensive (loss) income (136,758 ) (138,737 ) (201,655 ) Total comprehensive income $ 375,400 $ 452,122 $ 382,805 See accompanying notes.
51 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheet (In thousands, except share amounts) December31, 2016 2015 ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 717,259 $ 381,005 Receivables, net 592,326 603,295 Inventories, net 492,104 514,451 Deferred income taxes 50,004 46,724 Other current assets 76,497 73,352 Total current assets 1,928,190 1,618,827 Property, plant and equipment, net 473,230 484,548 Goodwill 2,818,950 2,706,633 Other intangibles, net 1,734,021 1,672,961 Investments and other assets 146,283 177,481 Total assets $ 7,100,674 $ 6,660,450 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY Current liabilities: Short-term borrowings and current portion of long-term debt, net $ 278,921 $ 384,924 Accounts payable 369,537 365,355 Income taxes payable 29,913 32,738 Accrued liabilities 246,070 241,004 Total current liabilities 924,441 1,024,021 Long-term debt, net 2,062,644 1,553,116 Deferred income taxes 621,776 624,046 Other long-term liabilities 235,300 204,641 Total liabilities 3,844,161 3,405,824 Stockholders equity: Preferred stock, $0.01 par value; authorized 5,000,000 shares; none issued   Common stock, $0.01 par value; authorized 800,000,000 shares; issued:2016  261,432,134 shares; 2015  260,718,769 shares 2,615 2,608 Capital in excess of par value 604,143 568,286 Retained earnings 4,403,683 3,974,793 Accumulated other comprehensive loss (542,389 ) (405,631 ) Treasury stock: 2016  32,053,227 shares; 2015  25,203,699 shares (1,211,539 ) (885,430 ) Total stockholders equity 3,256,513 3,254,626 Total liabilities and stockholders equity $ 7,100,674 $ 6,660,450 See accompanying notes.
52 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
Consolidated Statement of Stockholders Equity (In thousands) Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Capital Stock Preferred stock, $0.01 par value $  $  $  Common stock, $0.01 par value Balance at the beginning of the year 2,608 2,589 2,581 Shares issued 7 19 8 Balance at the end of the year 2,615 2,608 2,589 Capital in Excess of Par Value Balance at the beginning of the year 568,286 491,750 448,700 Issuance of common stock under employee stock plans 8,484 32,296 15,290 Share-based compensation costs 22,030 23,762 19,871 Excess tax benefits from exercise of stock options 5,343 20,478 7,889 Balance at the end of the year 604,143 568,286 491,750 Retained Earnings Balance at the beginning of the year 3,974,793 3,469,923 2,966,015 Net income 512,158 590,859 584,460 Cash dividends paid (83,267 ) (85,988 ) (80,551 ) Other (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) Balance at the end of the year 4,403,683 3,974,793 3,469,923 Accumulated Other Comprehensive (Loss) Income Foreign currency translation: Balance at the beginning of the year (249,774 ) (124,920 ) (1,089 ) Translation adjustments (68,774 ) (67,245 ) (59,712 ) Change in long-term intercompany notes (7,597 ) (51,235 ) (54,906 ) Net investment hedges, net of tax of $6,658, $3,432 and $4,961 in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively (12,179 ) (6,374 ) (9,213 ) Balance at the end of the year (338,324 ) (249,774 ) (124,920 ) Defined benefit pension plans: Balance at the beginning of the year (155,038 ) (141,982 ) (64,068 ) Net actuarial loss, net of tax of $17,450, $12,870 and $42,755 in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively (55,259 ) (21,002 ) (83,040 ) Amortization of net actuarial loss, net of tax of ($2,090), ($3,247) and ($1,650) in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively 6,618 6,137 2,834 Amortization of prior service costs, net of tax of $25, ($564) and ($753) in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively (79 ) 1,809 2,292 Balance at the end of the year (203,758 ) (155,038 ) (141,982 ) Unrealized holding gain (loss) on available-for-sale securities: Balance at the beginning of the year (819 ) 8 (82 ) Increase (decrease) during the year, net of tax 512 (827 ) 90 Balance at the end of the year (307 ) (819 ) 8 Accumulated other comprehensive loss at the end of the year (542,389 ) (405,631 ) (266,894 ) Treasury Stock Balance at the beginning of the year (885,430 ) (457,807 ) (215,936 ) Issuance of common stock under employee stock plans 10,031 7,777 3,412 Purchase of treasury stock (336,140 ) (435,400 ) (245,283 ) Balance at the end of the year (1,211,539 ) (885,430 ) (457,807 ) Total Stockholders Equity $ 3,256,513 $ 3,254,626 $ 3,239,561 See accompanying notes.
53 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (In thousands) Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Cash provided by (used for): Operating activities: Net income $ 512,158 $ 590,859 $ 584,460 Adjustments to reconcile net income to total operating activities: Depreciation and amortization 179,716 149,460 138,584 Deferred income taxes (5,632 ) 6,458 20,579 Share-based compensation expense 22,030 23,762 19,871 Gain on sale of facilities (743 )  (869 ) Changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions: Decrease (increase) in receivables 14,773 (6,995 ) (35,258 ) Decrease (increase) in inventories and other current assets 38,666 (12,007 ) 11,626 Increase (decrease) in payables, accruals and income taxes 2,657 (20,049 ) (18,653 ) (Decrease) increase in other long-term liabilities (4,298 ) 255 8,867 Pension contribution (6,775 ) (55,215 ) (5,729 ) Other, net 4,283 (3,988 ) 2,484 Total operating activities 756,835 672,540 725,962 Investing activities: Additions to property, plant and equipment (63,280 ) (69,083 ) (71,327 ) Purchases of businesses, net of cash acquired (391,419 ) (356,466 ) (573,647 ) Proceeds from sale of facilities 1,832 421 950 Other, net 500 (429 ) 2,391 Total investing activities (452,367 ) (425,557 ) (641,633 ) Financing activities: Net change in short-term borrowings (315,674 ) 226,761 (172,495 ) Proceeds from long-term borrowings 820,900 200,000 500,000 Repayments of long-term borrowings (48,724 ) (182,007 ) (914 ) Repurchases of common stock (336,140 ) (435,400 ) (245,283 ) Cash dividends paid (83,267 ) (85,988 ) (80,551 ) Excess tax benefits from share-based payments 5,343 20,478 7,889 Proceeds from employee stock plans and other, net 14,616 39,192 15,493 Total financing activities 57,054 (216,964 ) 24,139 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (25,268 ) (26,629 ) (26,056 ) Increase in cash and cash equivalents 336,254 3,390 82,412 Cash and cash equivalents: Beginning of year 381,005 377,615 295,203 End of year $ 717,259 $ 381,005 $ 377,615 See accompanying notes.
54 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
Significant Accounting Policies Basis of Consolidation The accompanying consolidated financial statements reflect the results of operations, financial position and cash flows of AMETEK, Inc. (the Company), and include the accounts of the Company and subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany transactions in the consolidation.
Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates and assumptions.
Cash Equivalents, Securities and Other Investments All highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less when purchased are considered cash equivalents. At December31, 2016 and 2015, the Companys investment in a fixed-income mutual fund (held by its captive insurance subsidiary) is classified as available-for-sale. The aggregate fair value of the fixed-income mutual fund at December31, 2016 and 2015 was $7.3million ($8.0million cost basis) and $8.5million ($9.9million cost basis), respectively. The temporary unrealized gain or loss on the fixed-income mutual fund is recorded as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (in stockholders equity), and is not significant. Certain of the Companys other investments, which are not significant, are also accounted for by the equity method of accounting.
Accounts Receivable The Company maintains allowances for estimated losses resulting from the inability of specific customers to meet their financial obligations to the Company. A specific allowance for doubtful accounts is recorded against the amount due from these customers. For all other customers, the Company recognizes allowance for doubtful accounts based on the length of time specific receivables are past due based on its historical experience. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $10.3million and $8.6million at December31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. See Note7.
Inventories The Company uses the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method of accounting, which approximates current replacement cost, for approximately 82% of its inventories at December31, 2016. The last-in, first-out (LIFO) method of accounting is used to determine cost for the remaining 18% of the Companys inventory at December31, 2016. For inventories where cost is determined by the LIFO method, the FIFO would have been $18.4million and $19.4million higher than the LIFO value reported in the consolidated balance sheet at December31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The Company provides estimated inventory reserves for slow-moving and obsolete inventory based on current assessments about future demand, market conditions, customers who may be experiencing financial difficulties and related management initiatives. See Note7.
Business Combinations The Company allocates the purchase price of an acquired company, including when applicable, the fair value of contingent consideration between tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed from 55 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Continued) the acquired business based on their estimated fair values, with the residual of the purchase price recorded as goodwill. The results of operations of the acquired business are included in the Companys operating results from the date of acquisition. See Note5.
Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. Expenditures for additions to plant facilities, or that extend their useful lives, are capitalized. The cost of minor tools, jigs and dies, and maintenance and repairs is charged to expense as incurred. Depreciation of plant and equipment is calculated principally on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the related assets. The range of lives for depreciable assets is generally three to tenyears for machinery and equipment, five to 27years for leasehold improvements and 25 to 50years for buildings. Depreciation expense was $74.8million, $68.7million and $63.7million for the years ended December31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. See Note7.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives, primarily trademarks and trade names, are not amortized; rather, they are tested for impairment at least annually.
The Company identifies its reporting units at the component level, which is one level below its operating segments. Generally, goodwill arises from acquisitions of specific operating companies and is assigned to the reporting unit in which a particular operating company resides. The Companys reporting units are composed of divisions that are one level below its operating segments and for which discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by segment management.
The Company principally relies on a discounted cash flow analysis to determine the fair value of each reporting unit, which considers forecasted cash flows discounted at an appropriate discount rate. The Company believes that market participants would use a discounted cash flow analysis to determine the fair value of its reporting units in a sale transaction. The annual goodwill impairment test requires the Company to make a number of assumptions and estimates concerning future levels of revenue growth, operating margins, depreciation, amortization and working capital requirements, which are based on the Companys long-range plan and are considered level 3 inputs. The Companys long-range plan is updated as part of its annual planning process and is reviewed and approved by management. The discount rate is an estimate of the overall after-tax rate of return required by a market participant whose weighted average cost of capital includes both equity and debt, including a risk premium. While the Company uses the best available information to prepare its cash flow and discount rate assumptions, actual future cash flows or market conditions could differ significantly resulting in future impairment charges related to recorded goodwill balances.
The impairment test for indefinite-lived intangibles other than goodwill (primarily trademarks and trade names) consists of a comparison of the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset to the carrying value of the asset as of the impairment testing date. The Company estimates the fair value of its indefinite-lived intangibles using the relief from royalty method using level 3 inputs. The fair value derived from the relief from royalty method is measured as the discounted cash flow savings realized from owning such trademarks and trade names and not having to pay a royalty for their use.
The Company completed its required annual impairment tests in the fourth quarter of 2016, 2015 and 2014 and determined that the carrying values of the Companys goodwill were not impaired. The Company completed its required annual impairment tests in the fourth quarter of 2016 and determined that the carrying values of 56 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Continued) certain of the Companys trademarks and trade names with indefinite lives were impaired. During 2016, the Company recorded a $13.9million non-cash impairment charge related to certain of the Companys trade names. The Company completed its required annual impairment tests in the fourth quarter of 2015 and 2014 and determined that the carrying values of the Companys other intangible assets with indefinite lives were not impaired.
Other intangible assets with finite lives are evaluated for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. The carrying value of other intangible assets with finite lives is considered impaired when the total projected undiscounted cash flows from those assets are separately identifiable and are less than the carrying value. In that event, a loss is recognized based on the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of those assets. Fair value is determined primarily using present value techniques based on projected cash flows from the asset group.
Intangible assets, other than goodwill, with definite lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives. Patents and technology are being amortized over useful lives of five to 20years, with a weighted average life of 16 years. Customer relationships are being amortized over a period of five to 20years, with a weighted average life of 19 years. Miscellaneous other intangible assets are being amortized over a period of two to 20years. The Company periodically evaluates the reasonableness of the estimated useful lives of these intangible assets. See Note6.
Financial Instruments and Foreign Currency Translation Assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated using exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date and their results of operations are translated using average exchange rates for the year. Certain transactions of the Company and its subsidiaries are denominated in currencies other than their functional currency. Exchange gains and losses from those transactions are included in operating results for the year.
The Company makes infrequent use of derivative financial instruments. Forward contracts are entered into from time to time to hedge specific firm commitments for certain inventory purchases, export sales, debt or foreign currency transactions, thereby minimizing the Companys exposure to raw material commodity price or foreign currency fluctuation.
In instances where transactions are designated as hedges of an underlying item, the gains and losses on those transactions are included in accumulated other comprehensive income within stockholders equity to the extent they are effective as hedges. An evaluation of hedge effectiveness is performed by the Company on an ongoing basis and any changes in the hedge are made as appropriate. SeeNote4.
Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue on product sales in the period when the sales process is complete. This generally occurs when products are shipped to the customer in accordance with terms of an agreement of sale, under which title and risk of loss have been transferred, collectability is reasonably assured and pricing is fixed or determinable. For a small percentage of sales where title and risk of loss passes at point of delivery, the Company recognizes revenue upon delivery to the customer, assuming all other criteria for revenue recognition are met. The Companys policy, with respect to sales returns and allowances, generally provides that the customer may not return products or be given allowances, except at the Companys option. The Company has agreements with distributors that do not provide expanded rights of return for unsold products. The distributor purchases the product from the Company, at which time title and risk of loss transfers to the distributor. The 57 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Continued) Company does not offer substantial sales incentives and credits to its distributors other than volume discounts. The Company accounts for these sales incentives as a reduction of revenues when the sale is recognized in the consolidated statement of income. Accruals for sales returns, other allowances and estimated warranty costs are provided at the time revenue is recognized based on the Companys historical experience. At December31, 2016 and 2015, the accrual for future warranty obligations was $22.0million and $22.8million, respectively. The Companys expense for warranty obligations was $16.0million in 2016, $14.8million in 2015 and $16.5million in 2014. The warranty periods for products sold vary among the Companys operations, but generally do not exceed one year. The Company calculates its warranty expense provision based on its historical warranty experience and adjustments are made periodically to reflect actual warranty expenses. See Note12.
Research and Development Research and development costs are included in Cost of sales as incurred and were $112.0million in 2016, $116.3million in 2015 and $119.3million in 2014.
Shipping and Handling Costs Shipping and handling costs are included in Cost of sales and were $47.9million in 2016, $50.5million in 2015 and $49.0million in 2014.
Share-Based Compensation The Company expenses the fair value of share-based awards made under its share-based plans in the consolidated financial statements over their requisite service period of the grants. See Note10.
Income Taxes The Companys process of providing for income taxes and determining the related balance sheet accounts requires management to assess uncertainties, make judgments regarding outcomes and utilize estimates. The Company conducts a broad range of operations around the world and is therefore subject to complex tax regulations in numerous international taxing jurisdictions, resulting at times in tax audits, disputes and potential litigation, the outcome of which is uncertain. Management must make judgments currently about such uncertainties and determine estimates of the Companys tax assets and liabilities. To the extent the final outcome differs, future adjustments to the Companys tax assets and liabilities may be necessary. The Company recognizes interest and penalties accrued related to uncertain tax positions in income tax expense.
The Company assesses the realizability of its deferred tax assets, taking into consideration the Companys forecast of future taxable income, available net operating loss carryforwards and available tax planning strategies that could be implemented to realize the deferred tax assets. Based on this assessment, management must evaluate the need for, and amount of, valuation allowances against the Companys deferred tax assets. To the extent facts and circumstances change in the future, adjustments to the valuation allowances may be required. See Note8.
Pensions The Company has U.S.and foreign defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans. The most significant elements in determining the Companys pension income or expense are the assumed pension liability discount rate and the expected return on plan assets. All unrecognized prior service costs, remaining transition 58 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Continued) obligations or assets and actuarial gains and losses have been recognized, net of tax effects, as a charge to accumulated other comprehensive income in stockholders equity and will be amortized as a component of net periodic pension cost. The Company uses a measurement date of December31 (its fiscal year end) for its U.S. and foreigndefined benefit plans. See Note11.
Earnings Per Share The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of common shares considered outstanding during the periods. The calculation of diluted earnings per share reflects the effect of all potentially dilutive securities (principally outstanding stock options and restricted stock grants). The number of weighted average shares used in the calculation of basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share was as follows for the years ended December31: 2016 2015 2014 (In thousands) Weighted average shares: Basic shares 232,593 239,906 244,885 Equity-based compensation plans 1,137 1,680 2,217 Diluted shares 233,730 241,586 247,102 2.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASU2014-09) and modified the standard thereafter. The objective of ASU2014-09 is to establish a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and will supersede most of the existing revenue recognition guidance. The core principle of ASU2014-09 is that an entity recognizes revenue at the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
ASU2014-09 applies to all contracts with customers except those that are within the scope of other topics in the FASB Accounting Standards Codification.
ASU 2014-09 is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December15, 2017 and may be early adopted for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December15, 2016. The Company will adopt ASU2014-09 as of January1, 2018. The guidance permits adoption by retrospectively applying the guidance to each prior reporting period presented (full retrospective method) or prospectively applying the guidance and providing additional disclosures comparing results to previous guidance, with the cumulative effect of initially applying the guidance recognized in beginning retained earnings at the date of initial application (modified retrospective method). The Company is in the process of determining its method of adoption.
The Company has completed its initial assessment phase and is proceeding with its implementation plan. The initial assessment consisted of reviewing a representative sample of contracts, discussions with key stakeholders and cataloging potential impacts on the Companys operations, accounting policies, financial control and financial statements. The Companys initial assessment indicates the key changes in the standard that impact the Companys revenue recognition relate to the allocation of contract revenues between various products and services, the timing of when those revenues are recognized and the deferral of incremental costs to obtain a contract. Given the diversity of its commercial arrangements, the Company is continuing to determine the impact ASU2014-09 may have on its consolidated results of operations, financial position, cash flows and financial statement disclosures.
59 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Continued) In February2015, the FASB issued ASUNo.2015-02, Amendments to the Consolidation Analysis (ASU2015-02).
ASU2015-02 is intended to improve targeted areas of consolidation guidance for legal entities such as limited partnerships, limited liability corporations, and securitization structures (collateralized debt obligations, collateralized loan obligations, and mortgage-backed security transactions).
ASU2015-02 makes specific amendments to the current consolidation guidance and ends the deferral granted to investment companies from applying the variable interest entities guidance. The Company adopted ASU2015-02 effective January1, 2016 and the adoption did not have a significant impact on the Companys consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
In April2015, the FASB issued ASUNo.2015-03, Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs (ASU2015-03).
ASU2015-03 requires debt issuance costs to be presented in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the associated debt liability. The Company retrospectively adopted ASU2015-03 effective January1, 2016 and the adoption did not have a significant impact on the Companys consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
In April2015, the FASB issued ASUNo.2015-05 , Customers Accounting for Fees Paid in a Cloud Computing Arrangement (ASU2015-05).
ASU2015-05 is intended to help entities evaluate the accounting for fees paid by a customer in a cloud computing arrangement. The guidance clarifies that customers should determine whether a cloud computing arrangement includes the license of software by applying the same guidance cloud service providers use to make this determination. The Company prospectively adopted ASU2015-05 effective January1, 2016 and the adoption did not have a significant impact on the Companys consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
In July2015, the FASB issued ASUNo.2015-11, Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory (ASU2015-11), which applies to inventory that is measured using first-in, first-out (FIFO) or average cost. As prescribed in this update, an entity should measure inventory that is within scope at the lower of cost and net realizable value, which is the estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal and transportation. Subsequent measurement is unchanged for inventory that is measured using last-in, first-out (LIFO).
ASU2015-11 is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December15, 2016, and should be applied prospectively with early adoption permitted at the beginning of an interim or annual reporting period. The Company does not expect the adoption of ASU2015-11 to have a significant impact on the Companys consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
In November2015, the FASB issued ASUNo.2015-17, Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes (ASU2015-17).
ASU2015-17 simplifies the presentation of deferred taxes by requiring deferred tax assets and liabilities be classified as noncurrent on the consolidated balance sheet.
ASU2015-17 is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December15, 2016.
ASU2015-17 may be adopted prospectively or retrospectively and early adoption is permitted. The Company does not expect the adoption of ASU2015-17 to have a significant impact on the Companys consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. The Company expects to prospectively adopt ASU2015-17.
In February2016, the FASB issued ASUNo.2016-02, Leases (ASU2016-02).
The new standard establishes a right-of-use model that requires a lessee to record a right-of-use asset and a lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with terms longer than twelve months. Leases will be classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the income statement.
ASU2016-02 is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December15, 2018.
ASU2016-02 is to be adopted using a modified retrospective approach and early adoption is permitted. The Company has not determined the impact ASU2016-02 may have on the Companys consolidated results of operations, financial position, cash flows and financial statement disclosures.
60 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Continued) In March2016, the FASB issued ASUNo.2016-09, Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting (ASU2016-09).
ASU2016-09 includes changes to the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities and classification on the statement of cash flows.
ASU2016-09 is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December15, 2016 and early adoption is permitted. The Company is unable to estimate the impact of adoption as it is dependent upon future stock option exercises, which cannot be predicted. However, the Company does not expect the adoption of ASU2016-09 to have a significant impact on the Companys consolidated results of operations, financial position, cash flows and financial statement disclosures.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.2017-01, Clarifying the Definition of a Business (ASU2017-01).
ASU2017-01 provides a more robust framework to use in determining when a set of assets and activities is a business.
ASU2017-01 requires an entity to evaluate if substantially all of the fair value of the gross assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets; if so, the set of assets is not a business.
ASU2017-01 requires that, to be a business, the set must include, at a minimum, an input and a substantive process that together significantly contribute to the ability to create outputs.
ASU2017-01 is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December15, 2017.
ASU2017-01 will be applied prospectively to any transactions occurring within the period of adoption. Early adoption is permitted, including for interim or annual periods in which the financial statements have not been issued or made available for issuance. The Company has not determined the impact ASU2017-01 may have on the Companys consolidated results of operations, financial position, cash flows and financial statement disclosures.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASUNo.2017-04, Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment (ASU2017-04).
ASU2017-04 eliminates the requirement to calculate the implied fair value of goodwill (second step) to measure a goodwill impairment charge. Under the guidance, an impairment charge will be measured based on the excess of the reporting units carrying amount over its fair value (first step).
ASU2017-04 is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December15, 2019 and early adoption is permitted. The Company has not determined the impact ASU2017-04 may have on the Companys consolidated results of operations, financial position, cash flows and financial statement disclosures.
3.
Fair Value Measurements Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date.
The Company utilizes a valuation hierarchy for disclosure of the inputs to the valuations used to measure fair value. This hierarchy prioritizes the inputs into three broad levels as follows. Level1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level2 inputs are quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets or inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly through market corroboration, for substantially the full term of the financial instrument. Level3 inputs are unobservable inputs based on the Companys own assumptions used to measure assets and liabilities at fair value. A financial asset or liabilitys classification within the hierarchy is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement.
61 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Continued) The following table provides the Companys assets that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of December31, 2016 and 2015, consistent with the fair value hierarchy: December31,2016 December31,2015 Fair Value Fair Value (In thousands) Fixed-income investments $ 7,317 $ 8,482 The fair value of fixed-income investments, which are valued as level1 investments, was based on quoted market prices. The fixed-income investments are shown as a component of long-term assets on the consolidated balance sheet.
For the year ended December31, 2016, gains and losses on the investments noted above were not significant. No transfers between level1 and level2 investments occurred during the year ended December31, 2016.
Financial Instruments Cash, cash equivalents and fixed-income investments are recorded at fair value at December31, 2016 and 2015 in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet.
The following table provides the estimated fair values of the Companys financial instrument liabilities, for which fair value is measured for disclosure purposes only, compared to the recorded amounts at December31, 2016 and 2015: December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Recorded Amount Fair Value Recorded Amount Fair Value (In thousands) Short-term borrowings, net $  $  $ (312,999 ) $ (312,999 ) Long-term debt, net (including current portion) (2,341,565 ) (2,386,901 ) (1,625,041 ) (1,683,523 ) The fair value of short-term borrowings, net approximates the carrying value. Short-term borrowings, net are valued as level 2 liabilities as they are corroborated by observable market data. The Companys long-term debt, net is all privately held with no public market for this debt, therefore, the fair value of long-term debt, net was computed based on comparable current market data for similar debt instruments and is considered to be a level3 liability. See Note 9 for long-term debt principal amounts, interest rates and maturities.
Foreign Currency At December31, 2016 and 2015, the Company had no forward contracts outstanding. For the year ended December31, 2016, realized gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts were not significant.
4.
Hedging Activities The Company has designated certain foreign-currency-denominated long-term borrowings as hedges of the net investment in certain foreign operations. As of December31, 2016, these net investment hedges included British-pound- and Euro-denominated long-term debt. As of December31, 2015, these net investment hedges included British-pound-denominated long-term debt. These borrowings were designed to create net investment 62 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Continued) hedges in each of the designated foreign subsidiaries. The Company designated the British-pound- and Euro-denominated loans referred to above as hedging instruments to offset translation gains or losses on the net investment due to changes in the British pound and Euro exchange rates. These net investment hedges are evidenced by managements contemporaneous documentation supporting the hedge designation. Any gain or loss on the hedging instruments (the debt) following hedge designation is reported in accumulated other comprehensive income in the same manner as the translation adjustment on the investment based on changes in the spot rate, which is used to measure hedge effectiveness.
At December31, 2016 and 2015, the Company had $376.3million and $177.1million, respectively, of British-pound-denominated loans, which were designated as a hedge against the net investment in British pound functional currency foreign subsidiaries. At December31, 2016, the Company had $527.7million in Euro-denominated loans, which were designated as a hedge against the net investment in Euro functional currency foreign subsidiaries. As a result of the British-pound- and Euro-denominated loans being designated and 100% effective as net investment hedges, $50.0million and $14.4million of currency remeasurement gains have been included in the foreign currency translation component of other comprehensive income for the years ended December31, 2016 and 2015, respectively.
5.
Acquisitions The Company spent $391.4million in cash, net of cash acquired, to acquire Brookfield Engineering Laboratories (Brookfield) and ESP/SurgeX in January2016, HSFoils and NuInstruments in July2016 and Laserage Technology Corporation (Laserage) in October2016. Brookfield is a manufacturer of viscometers and rheometers, as well as instrumentation to analyze texture and powder flow. ESP/SurgeX is a manufacturer of energy intelligence and power protection, monitoring and diagnostic solutions. HS Foils develops and manufactures key components used in radiation detectors including ultra-thin radiation windows, silicon drift detectors and x-ray filters. NuInstruments is a provider of magnetic sector mass spectrometers used for elemental and isotope analysis. Laserage is a provider of laser fabrication services for the medical device market. Brookfield, ESP/SurgeX, HSFoils and NuInstruments are part of AMETEKs Electronic Instruments Group (EIG) and Laserage is part of AMETEKs Electromechanical Group (EMG).
The following table represents the preliminary allocation of the aggregate purchase price for the net assets of the above acquisitions based on their estimated fair values at acquisition (in millions): Property, plant and equipment $ 23.1 Goodwill 171.3 Other intangible assets 192.2 Deferred income taxes, net (18.8 ) Long-term liabilities (2.4 ) Net working capital and other (1 ) 26.0 Total purchase price $ 391.4 (1) Includes $16.1million in accounts receivable, whose fair value, contractual cash flows and expected cash flows are approximately equal.
The amount allocated to goodwill is reflective of the benefits the Company expects to realize from the acquisitions as follows: Brookfields viscosity measurement instrumentation products and technologies complement the Companys existing laboratory instrumentation businesses and provides the Company with opportunities to expand that business platform into a broader range of markets and applications. ESP/SurgeXs 63 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Continued) patented technology is widely used by the business equipment, imaging, audio visual, information technology, gaming and vending industries and is a strategic fit with the Companys existing power protection platform to accelerate product innovation and market expansion worldwide. HSFoils broadens the Companys product offering and technical capabilities with its approach of bringing advanced materials and fabrication methods from micro- and nanofabrication to new application areas. NuInstruments broadens the Companys product offering and technical capabilities in differentiated, high-end analytical instrumentation. Laserage offers precision tube fabrication of minimally invasive surgical devices, stents and catheter-based delivery systems. The Company expects approximately $99million of the goodwill recorded in connection with the 2016 acquisitions will be tax deductible in future years.
At December31, 2016, the purchase price allocated to other intangible assets of $192.2million consists of $34.5million of indefinite-lived intangible trade names, which are not subject to amortization. The remaining $157.7million of other intangible assets consists of $124.8million of customer relationships, which are being amortized over a period of 18 to 20years and $32.9million of purchased technology, which is being amortized over a period of 10 to 18years. Amortization expense for each of the next fiveyears for the 2016 acquisitions listed above is expected to approximate $9million per year.
The Company is in the process of finalizing the measurement of certain liabilities for its October2016 acquisition of Laserage and July2016 acquisition of NuInstruments, including the accounting for income taxes.
The 2016 acquisitions noted above had an immaterial impact on reported net sales, net income and diluted earnings per share for the year ended December31, 2016. Had the 2016acquisitions been made at the beginning of 2016 or 2015, unaudited pro forma net sales, net income and diluted earnings per share for the years ended December31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, would not have been materially different than the amounts reported. Pro forma results are not necessarily indicative of the results that would have occurred if the acquisitions had been completed at the beginning of 2016 or 2015.
In 2015, the Company spent $356.5million in cash, net of cash acquired, to acquire Global Tubes in May2015 and Surface Vision in July2015. Global Tubes is a manufacturer of high-precision, small-diameter metal tubing. Surface Vision develops and manufactures software-enabled vision systems used to inspect surfaces of continuously processed materials for flaws and defects. Global Tubes is part of EMG and Surface Vision is part of EIG.
In 2014, the Company spent $573.6million in cash, net of cash acquired, to acquire Teseq Group in January2014, VTIInstruments (VTI) in February2014, LuphosGmbH in May2014, Zygo Corporation in June2014 and Amptek,Inc. in August2014. Teseq is a manufacturer of test and measurement instrumentation for electromagnetic compatibility testing. VTI is a manufacturer of high-precision test and measurement instrumentation. Luphos core technology is used in the measurement of complex aspheric optical surfaces and other surfaces through non-contact methods. Zygo is a provider of optical metrology solutions, high-precision optics and optical assemblies for use in a wide range of scientific, industrial and medical applications. Amptek is a manufacturer of instruments and detectors used to identify composition of materials using x-ray fluorescence technology. Teseq, VTI, Luphos, Zygo and Amptek are part of EIG.
Acquisition Subsequent to December 31, 2016 In February2017, the Company acquired Rauland-Borg for approximately $340million in cash, with a potential $30million contingent payment due upon the achievement of certain milestones.
Rauland-Borg has estimated annual sales of approximately $160million.
Rauland-Borg is a global provider of enterprise clinical and education communications solutions for hospitals, health systems and educational facilities.
Rauland-Borg will join EIG.
64 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Continued) 6.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets The changes in the carrying amounts of goodwill by segment were as follows: EIG EMG Total (In millions) Balance at December 31, 2014 $ 1,646.7 $ 967.3 $ 2,614.0 Goodwill acquired 64.0 89.5 153.5 Purchase price allocation adjustments and other (2.3 )  (2.3 ) Foreign currency translation adjustments (30.2 ) (28.4 ) (58.6 ) Balance at December 31, 2015 1,678.2 1,028.4 2,706.6 Goodwill acquired 165.0 6.3 171.3 Purchase price allocation adjustments and other 0.3 (0.1 ) 0.2 Foreign currency translation adjustments (26.5 ) (32.6 ) (59.1 ) Balance at December 31, 2016 $ 1,817.0 $ 1,002.0 $ 2,819.0 Other intangible assets were as follows at December 31: 2016 2015 (In thousands) Definite-lived intangible assets (subject to amortization): Patents $ 49,755 $ 51,059 Purchased technology 283,612 266,644 Customer lists 1,363,700 1,257,730 1,697,067 1,575,433 Accumulated amortization: Patents (34,927 ) (34,745 ) Purchased technology (87,869 ) (73,809 ) Customer lists (362,924 ) (306,558 ) (485,720 ) (415,112 ) Net intangible assets subject to amortization 1,211,347 1,160,321 Indefinite-lived intangible assets (not subject to amortization): Trademarks and trade names 536,574 512,640 Impairment (13,900 )  522,674 512,640 $ 1,734,021 $ 1,672,961 The Company completed its required annual impairment tests in the fourth quarter of 2016 and determined that the carrying values of certain of the Companys trademarks and trade names with indefinite lives were 65 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Continued) impaired. During 2016, the Company recorded, in Cost of sales, a $13.9million non-cash impairment charge related to certain of the Companys trade names, of which $9.2million impacted EIG and $4.7million impacted EMG. See Note 1 for further descriptions of the Companys impairment testing.
Amortization expense was $104.9million (including impairment of $13.9million), $80.8million and $74.9million for the years ended December31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Amortization expense for each of the next fiveyears is expected to approximate $91million per year, not considering the impact of potential future acquisitions.
7.
Other Consolidated Balance Sheet Information December 31, 2016 2015 (In thousands) INVENTORIES, NET Finished goods and parts $ 75,827 $ 83,229 Work in process 101,484 105,259 Raw materials and purchased parts 314,793 325,963 $ 492,104 $ 514,451 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT, NET Land $ 41,875 $ 41,951 Buildings 281,847 293,002 Machinery and equipment 840,725 849,658 1,164,447 1,184,611 Less: Accumulated depreciation (691,217 ) (700,063 ) $ 473,230 $ 484,548 ACCRUED LIABILITIES Employee compensation and benefits $ 93,226 $ 93,232 Product warranty obligation 22,007 22,761 Restructuring 29,951 29,203 Other 100,886 95,808 $ 246,070 $ 241,004 2016 2015 2014 (In thousands) ALLOWANCES FOR POSSIBLE LOSSES ON ACCOUNTS Balance at the beginning of the year $ 8,555 $ 10,446 $ 9,547 Additions charged to expense 4,124 630 2,974 Write-offs (2,304 ) (1,872 ) (2,243 ) Foreign currency translation adjustments and other (118 ) (649 ) 168 Balance at the end of the year $ 10,257 $ 8,555 $ 10,446 66 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Continued) 8.
Income Taxes The components of income before income taxes and the details of the provision for income taxes were as follows for the years ended December31: 2016 2015 2014 (In thousands) Income before income taxes: Domestic $ 397,215 $ 502,292 $ 495,516 Foreign 295,888 304,088 309,316 Total $ 693,103 $ 806,380 $ 804,832 Provision for income taxes: Current: Federal $ 116,898 $ 130,996 $ 128,635 Foreign 63,170 66,691 60,606 State 6,509 11,376 12,461 Total current 186,577 209,063 201,702 Deferred: Federal 5,273 1,711 19,870 Foreign (8,434 ) (3,611 ) 1,552 State (2,471 ) 8,358 (2,752 ) Total deferred (5,632 ) 6,458 18,670 Total provision $ 180,945 $ 215,521 $ 220,372 67 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Continued) Significant components of the deferred tax (asset) liability were as follows at December31: 2016 2015 (In thousands) Current deferred tax (asset) liability: Reserves not currently deductible $ (39,509 ) $ (37,771 ) Share-based compensation (7,022 ) (7,218 ) Net operating loss carryforwards (2,072 ) (368 ) Other (1,041 ) 353 (49,644 ) (45,004 ) Portion included in other current liabilities (360 ) (1,720 ) Gross current deferred tax asset (50,004 ) (46,724 ) Noncurrent deferred tax (asset) liability: Differences in basis of property and accelerated depreciation 54,243 57,581 Reserves not currently deductible (28,808 ) (28,809 ) Pensions 8,714 6,736 Differences in basis of intangible assets and accelerated amortization 603,577 597,266 Net operating loss carryforwards (8,399 ) (5,722 ) Share-based compensation (13,707 ) (11,607 ) Foreign tax credit carryforwards (3,441 )  Other 3,477 1,411 615,656 616,856 Less: Valuation allowance 2,046 2,840 617,702 619,696 Portion included in noncurrent assets 4,074 4,350 Gross noncurrent deferred tax liability 621,776 624,046 Net deferred tax liability $ 571,772 $ 577,322 The Companys effective tax rate reconciles to the U.S. Federal statutory rate as follows for the years ended December31: 2016 2015 2014 U.S. Federal statutory rate 35.0 % 35.0 % 35.0 % State income taxes, net of federal income tax benefit 0.4 1.2 0.9 Foreign operations, net (7.1 ) (6.8 ) (6.1 ) U.S. Manufacturing deduction and credits (2.6 ) (2.4 ) (2.2 ) Other 0.4 (0.3 ) (0.2 ) Consolidated effective tax rate 26.1 % 26.7 % 27.4 % At December31, 2016 and 2015, U.S.and foreign deferred income taxes totaling $4.5million and $6.9million were provided on undistributed earnings of certain non-U.S.subsidiaries that are not expected to be permanently reinvested in such subsidiaries. There has been no provision for U.S.deferred income taxes for the 68 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Continued) undistributed earnings of certain other subsidiaries, which total approximately $1,126.9million and $1,075.0million at December31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, because the Company intends to reinvest these earnings indefinitely in operations outside the United States. Upon distribution of those earnings to the United States, the Company would be subject to U.S.income taxes and withholding taxes payable to the various foreign countries. Determination of the amount of the unrecognized deferred income tax liability on these undistributed earnings is not practicable.
At December31, 2016, the Company had tax effected benefits of $10.4million related to net operating loss carryforwards, which will be available to offset future income taxes payable, subject to certain annual or other limitations based on foreign and U.S. tax laws. This amount includes net operating loss carryforwards of $4.6million for federal income tax purposes with no valuation allowance, $4.5million for state income tax purposes with no valuation allowance and $1.3million for foreign income tax purposes with a valuation allowance of $1.5million. These net operating loss carryforwards, if not used, will expire between 2017 and 2036.
At December31, 2016, the Company had tax effected benefits of $4.1million related to tax credit carryforwards, which will be available to offset future income taxes payable, subject to certain annual or other limitations based on foreign and U.S. tax laws. This amount includes tax credit carryforwards of $1.1million for federal income tax purposes with a valuation allowance of $0.5million, $2.9million for state income tax purposes with no valuation allowance and $0.1million for foreign income tax purposes with no valuation allowance. These tax credit carryforwards, if not used, will expire between 2017 and 2036.
The Company maintains a valuation allowance to reduce certain deferred tax assets to amounts that are more likely than not to be realized. This allowance primarily relates to the deferred tax assets established for foreign net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits. In 2016, the Company recorded a decrease of $0.8million in the valuation allowance primarily related to federal tax credits that are not expected to be utilized.
At December31, 2016, the Company had gross unrecognized tax benefits of $57.9million, of which $48.5million, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate. At December31, 2015, the Company had gross unrecognized tax benefits of $63.8million, of which $52.9million, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate.
At December31, 2016 and 2015, the Company reported $8.9million and $10.7million, respectively, related to interest and penalty exposure as accrued income tax expense in the consolidated balance sheet. During 2016 and 2015, the Company recognized a net benefit of $1.8million and $0.4million, respectively, and during 2014, the Company recognized a net expense of $2.5million, for interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in the consolidated statement of income as a component of income tax expense.
The most significant tax jurisdiction for the Company is the United States. The Company files income tax returns in various other state and foreign tax jurisdictions, in some cases for multiple legal entities per jurisdiction. Generally, the Company has open tax years subject to tax audit on average of between three and sixyears in these jurisdictions. At December31, 2016, there were no tax years currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The Company has not materially extended any other statutes of limitation for any significant location and has reviewed and accrued for, where necessary, tax liabilities for open periods including state and foreign jurisdictions that remain subject to examination. There have been no penalties asserted or imposed by the IRS related to substantial understatement of income, gross valuation misstatement or failure to disclose a listed or reportable transaction.
During 2016, the Company added $8.6million of tax, interest and penalties to identified uncertain tax positions and reversed $16.3million of tax and interest related to statute expirations and settlement of prior 69 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Continued) uncertain positions. During 2015, the Company added $12.0million of tax, interest and penalties related to identified uncertain tax positions and reversed $20.3million of tax and interest related to statute expirations and settlement of prior uncertain positions.
The following is a reconciliation of the liability for uncertain tax positions at December31: 2016 2015 2014 (In millions) Balance at the beginning of the year $ 63.8 $ 71.7 $ 55.2 Additions for tax positions related to the current year 5.5 8.8 10.7 Additions for tax positions of prior years 1.5 1.3 16.8 Reductions for tax positions of prior years (3.6 ) (7.1 ) (1.7 ) Reductions related to settlements with taxing authorities (3.4 ) (8.3 ) (0.4 ) Reductions due to statute expirations (5.9 ) (2.6 ) (8.9 ) Balance at the end of the year $ 57.9 $ 63.8 $ 71.7 In 2016, the additions above primarily reflect the increase in tax liabilities for uncertain tax positions related to certain domestic and foreign issues, while the reductions above primarily relate to statute expirations and settlement of domestic and foreign issues. At December31, 2016, tax, interest and penalties of $65.2million were classified as a noncurrent liability. The net change in uncertain tax positions for the year ended December31, 2016 resulted in a decrease to income tax expense of $6.2million.
70 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Continued) 9.
Debt Long-term debt, net consisted of the following at December 31: 2016 2015 (In thousands) U.S. dollar 6.20% senior notes due December 2017 $ 270,000 $ 270,000 U.S. dollar 6.35% senior notes due July 2018 80,000 80,000 U.S. dollar 7.08% senior notes due September 2018 160,000 160,000 U.S. dollar 7.18% senior notes due December 2018 65,000 65,000 U.S. dollar 6.30% senior notes due December 2019 100,000 100,000 U.S. dollar 3.73% senior notes due September 2024 300,000 300,000 U.S. dollar 3.91% senior notes due June 2025 50,000 50,000 U.S. dollar 3.96% senior notes due August 2025 100,000 100,000 U.S. dollar 3.83% senior notes due September 2026 100,000 100,000 U.S. dollar 3.98% senior notes due September 2029 100,000 100,000 U.S. dollar 4.45% senior notes due August 2035 50,000 50,000 British pound 5.99% senior note due November 2016  59,049 British pound 4.68% senior note due September 2020 98,701 118,098 British pound 2.59% senior note due November 2028 185,067  British pound 2.70% senior note due November 2031 92,533  Euro 1.34% senior notes due October 2026 316,643  Euro 1.53% senior notes due October 2028 211,096  Swiss franc 2.44% senior note due December 2021 54,150 55,024 Revolving credit facility borrowings  314,100 Other, principally foreign 14,604 20,849 Less: Debt issuance costs (6,229 ) (4,080 ) Total debt, net 2,341,565 1,938,040 Less: Current portion, net (278,921 ) (384,924 ) Total long-term debt, net $ 2,062,644 $ 1,553,116 Maturities of long-term debt borrowings outstanding at December31, 2016 were as follows: $308.8million in 2018; $100.0million in 2019; $98.7million in 2020; $54.2million in 2021; none in 2022; and $1,505.3million in 2023 and thereafter.
In October2016, the Company completed a private placement agreement to sell 500million Euros and 225million British pounds in senior notes to a group of institutional investors (the 2016 Private Placement). There were two funding dates under the 2016 Private Placement. The first funding occurred in October2016 for 500million Euros ($546.8million), consisting of 300million Euros ($328.1million) in aggregate principal amount of 1.34% senior notes due October2026 and 200million Euros ($218.7million) in aggregate principal amount of 1.53% senior notes due October2028. The second funding occurred in November2016 for 225million British pounds ($274.1million), consisting of 150million British pounds ($182.7million) in aggregate principal amount of 2.59% senior notes due November2028 and 75million British pounds ($91.4million) in aggregate principal amount of 2.70% senior notes due November2031. The 2016 Private 71 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Continued) Placement senior notes carry a weighted average interest rate of 1.82% and are subject to certain customary covenants, including financial covenants that, among other things, require the Company to maintain certain debt-to-EBITDA (earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization) and interest coverage ratios. The proceeds from the first funding of the 2016 Private Placement were used to pay down domestic borrowings under the Companys revolving credit facility. The proceeds from the second funding of the 2016 Private Placement were used to pay down, at maturity, a 40million British pound ($48.7million) 5.99% senior note in November2016 and provides the Company with additional financial flexibility to support its growth plans, including its acquisition strategy.
In December 2007, the Company issued $270million in aggregate principal amount of 6.20% private placement senior notes due December 2017 and $100million in aggregate principal amount of 6.30%private placement senior notes due December 2019. In July 2008, the Company issued $80million in aggregate principal amount of 6.35% private placement senior notes due July 2018. In September 2008, the Company issued $160million in aggregate principal amount of 7.08% private placement senior notes due September 2018. In December 2008, the Company issued $65million in aggregate principal amount of 7.18%private placement senior notes due December 2018. In September2014, the Company issued $300million in aggregate principal amount of 3.73% senior notes due September2024, $100million in aggregate principal amount of 3.83% senior notes due September2026 and $100million in aggregate principal amount of 3.98% senior notes due September2029. In June2015, the Company issued $50million in aggregate principal amount of 3.91% senior notes due June2025. In August2015, the Company issued $100million in aggregate principal amount of 3.96% senior notes due August2025 and $50million in aggregate principal amount of 4.45% senior notes due August2035.
In November 2004, the Company issued a 40million British pound 5.99% senior note due November 2016 (paid in full, at maturity, as previously noted). InSeptember 2010, the Company issued an 80million British pound ($98.7million at December31, 2016) 4.68% senior note due September 2020. InDecember 2011, the Company issued a 55million Swiss franc ($54.2million at December31, 2016) 2.44% senior note due December 2021.
In March2016, the Company along with certain of its foreign subsidiaries amended and restated its credit agreement dated as of September22, 2011 (the Credit Agreement). The Credit Agreement amends and restates the Companys existing $700million revolving credit facility, which was due to expire in December2018. The Credit Agreement consists of a five-year revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $850million with a final maturity date in March2021. The revolving credit facility total borrowing capacity excludes an accordion feature that permits the Company to request up to an additional $300million in revolving credit commitments at any time during the life of the Credit Agreement under certain conditions. The Credit Agreement places certain restrictions on allowable additional indebtedness. At December31, 2016, the Company had available borrowing capacity of $1,117.3million under its revolving credit facility, including the $300million accordion feature.
Interest rates on outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility are at the applicable benchmark rate plus a negotiated spread or at the U.S. prime rate. At December31, 2016, the Company did not have any borrowings outstanding under the revolving credit facility. At December31, 2015, the Company had $314.1million of borrowings outstanding under the revolving credit facility. The weighted average interest rate on the revolving credit facility for the years ended December31, 2016 and 2015 was 1.72% and 1.37%, respectively. The Company had outstanding letters of credit primarily under the revolving credit facility totaling $33.2million and $36.9million at December31, 2016 and 2015, respectively.
72 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Continued) The private placements, the senior notes and the revolving credit facility are subject to certain customary covenants, including financial covenants that, among other things, require the Company to maintain certain debt-to-EBITDA and interest coverage ratios. The Company was in compliance with all provisions of the debt arrangements at December31, 2016.
Foreign subsidiaries of the Company had available credit facilities with local foreign lenders of $43.7million and $37.5million at December31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Foreign subsidiaries had debt borrowings outstanding totaling $14.6million and $20.9million, including $3.8million and $7.9million reported in long-term debt, net at December31, 2016 and 2015, respectively.
The weighted average interest rate on total debt borrowings outstanding at December31, 2016 and 2015 was 4.4% and 5.2%, respectively.
10.
Share-Based Compensation Under the terms of the Companys stockholder-approved share-based plans, incentive and non-qualified stock options and restricted stock have been, and may be, issued to the Companys officers, management-level employees and members of its Board of Directors. Employee and non-employee director stock options generally vest at a rate of 25% per year, beginning oneyear from the date of the grant, and restricted stock generally has a four-year cliff vesting. Stock options generally have a maximum contractual term of sevenyears. At December31, 2016, 14.0 million shares of Company common stock were reserved for issuance under the Companys share-based plans, including 6.0million shares for stock options outstanding.
The Company issues previously unissued shares when stock options are exercised and shares are issued from treasury stock upon the award of restricted stock.
The Company measures and records compensation expense related to all stock awards by recognizing the grant date fair value of the awards over their requisite service periods in the financial statements. For grants under any of the Companys plans that are subject to graded vesting over a service period, the Company recognizes expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for the entire award.
Total share-based compensation expense was as follows for the years ended December31: 2016 2015 2014 (In thousands) Stock option expense $ 9,984 $ 10,955 $ 9,130 Restricted stock expense 12,046 12,807 10,741 Total pre-tax expense 22,030 23,762 19,871 Related tax benefit (6,846 ) (7,623 ) (6,154 ) Reduction of net income $ 15,184 $ 16,139 $ 13,717 Pre-tax share-based compensation expense is included in the consolidated statement of income in either Cost of sales or Selling, general and administrative expenses, depending on where the recipients cash compensation is reported.
73 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Continued) The fair value of each stock option grant is estimated on the date of grant using a Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model. The following weighted average assumptions were used in the Black-Scholes-Merton model to estimate the fair values of stock options granted during the years indicated: 2016 2015 2014 Expected volatility 21.8 % 22.3 % 23.9 % Expected term (years) 5.0 5.0 5.0 Risk-free interest rate 1.23 % 1.58 % 1.63 % Expected dividend yield 0.77 % 0.69 % 0.45 % Black-Scholes-Merton fair value per stock option granted $ 9.14 $ 10.89 $ 12.21 Expected volatility is based on the historical volatility of the Companys stock. The Company used historical exercise data to estimate the stock options expected term, which represents the period of time that the stock options granted are expected to be outstanding. Management anticipates that the future stock option holding periods will be similar to the historical stock option holding periods. The risk-free interest rate for periods within the expected term of the stock option is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve at the time of grant. Compensation expense recognized for all share-based awards is net of estimated forfeitures. The Companys estimated forfeiture rates are based on its historical experience.
The following is a summary of the Companys stock option activity and related information for the year ended December31, 2016: Shares Weighted Average Exercise Price Weighted Average Remaining Contractual Life Aggregate Intrinsic Value (Inthousands) (Years) (Inmillions) Outstanding at the beginning of the year 5,659 $ 39.49 Granted 1,471 46.97 Exercised (713 ) 25.72 Forfeited (329 ) 49.40 Expired (77 ) 52.52 Outstanding at the end of the year 6,011 $ 42.25 3.9 $ 45.9 Exercisable at the end of the year 3,209 $ 36.39 2.5 $ 42.1 The aggregate intrinsic value of stock options exercised during 2016, 2015 and 2014 was $16.2million, $62.3million and $25.7million, respectively. The total fair value of stock options vested during 2016, 2015 and 2014 was $10.8million, $10.3million and $8.9million, respectively.
74 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Continued) The following is a summary of the Companys nonvested stock option activity and related information for the year ended December31, 2016: Shares Weighted Average Grant Date Fair Value (Inthousands) Nonvested stock options outstanding at the beginning of the year 2,717 $ 10.85 Granted 1,471 9.14 Vested (1,057 ) 10.22 Forfeited (329 ) 10.54 Nonvested stock options outstanding at the end of the year 2,802 $ 10.15 As of December31, 2016, there was approximately $19million of expected future pre-tax compensation expense related to the 2.8million nonvested stock options outstanding, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately two years.
The fair value of restricted shares under the Companys restricted stock arrangement is determined by the product of the number of shares granted and the grant date market price of the Companys common stock. Upon the grant of restricted stock, the fair value of the restricted shares (unearned compensation) at the date of grant is charged as a reduction of capital in excess of par value in the Companys consolidated balance sheet and is amortized to expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, which is the same as the calculated derived service period as determined on the grant date. Restricted stock grants are subject to accelerated vesting due to certain events, including doubling of the grant price of the Companys common stock as of the close of business during any five consecutive trading days.
The following is a summary of the Companys nonvested restricted stock activity and related information for the year ended December 31, 2016: Shares Weighted Average Grant Date Fair Value (Inthousands) Nonvested restricted stock outstanding at the beginning of the year 1,061 $ 46.32 Granted 376 46.91 Vested (292 ) 38.13 Forfeited (126 ) 48.66 Nonvested restricted stock outstanding at the end of the year 1,019 $ 48.59 The total fair value of restricted stock vested was $11.1million, $10.6million and $3.6million in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The weighted average fair value of restricted stock granted per share during 2016 and 2015 was $46.91 and $52.31, respectively. As of December31, 2016, there was approximately $28million of expected future pre-tax compensation expense related to the 1.0million nonvested restricted shares outstanding, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of less than twoyears.
75 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Continued) 11.
Retirement Plans and Other Postretirement Benefits Retirement and Pension Plans The Company sponsors several retirement and pension plans covering eligible salaried and hourly employees. The plans generally provide benefits based on participants years of service and/or compensation. The following is a brief description of the Companys retirement and pension plans.
The Company maintains contributory and noncontributory defined benefit pension plans. Benefits for eligible salaried and hourly employees under all defined benefit plans are funded through trusts established in conjunction with the plans. The Companys funding policy with respect to its defined benefit plans is to contribute amounts that provide for benefits based on actuarial calculations and the applicable requirements of U.S. federal and local foreign laws. The Company estimates that it will make both required and discretionary cash contributions of approximately $52million to $56million to its worldwide defined benefit pension plans in 2017. The estimated cash contributions range includes $50.1million in cash contributions to its defined benefit pension plans in January2017, with $40.0million contributed to U.S. defined benefit pension plans and $10.1million contributed to foreign defined benefit pension plans.
The Company uses a measurement date of December31 (its fiscal year end) for its U.S. and foreign defined benefit pension plans.
The Company sponsors a 401(k) retirement and savings plan for eligible U.S. employees. Participants in the retirement and savings plan may contribute a specified portion of their compensation on a pre-tax basis, which varies by location. The Company matches employee contributions ranging from 20% to 100%, up to a maximum percentage ranging from 1% to 8% of eligible compensation or up to a maximum of $1,200 per participant in some locations.
The Companys retirement and savings plan has a defined contribution retirement feature principally to cover U.S.salaried employees joining the Company after December 31, 1996. Under the retirement feature, the Company makes contributions for eligible employees based on a pre-established percentage of the covered employees salary subject to pre-established vesting. Employees of certain of the Companys foreign operations participate in various local defined contribution plans.
The Company has nonqualified unfunded retirement plans for its Directors and certain retired employees. It also provides supplemental retirement benefits, through contractual arrangements and/or a Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (SERP) covering certain current and former executives of the Company. These supplemental benefits are designed to compensate the executive for retirement benefits that would have been provided under the Companys primary retirement plan, except for statutory limitations on compensation that must be taken into account under those plans. The projected benefit obligations of the SERP and the contracts will primarily be funded by a grant of shares of the Companys common stock upon retirement or termination of the executive. The Company is providing for these obligations by charges to earnings over the applicable periods.
76 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Continued) The following tables set forth the changes in net projected benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets for the funded and unfunded defined benefit plans for the years ended December31: U.S. Defined Benefit Pension Plans: 2016 2015 (In thousands) Change in projected benefit obligation: Net projected benefit obligation at the beginning of the year $ 472,477 $ 491,373 Service cost 3,488 3,924 Interest cost 22,153 20,761 Actuarial losses (gains) 29,681 (27,605 ) Gross benefits paid (29,005 ) (27,930 ) Plan amendments 56  Acquisition  11,954 Net projected benefit obligation at the end of the year $ 498,850 $ 472,477 Change in plan assets: Fair value of plan assets at the beginning of the year $ 508,775 $ 498,923 Actual return on plan assets 36,414 (21,020 ) Employer contributions 889 50,726 Gross benefits paid (29,005 ) (27,930 ) Acquisition  8,076 Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year $ 517,073 $ 508,775 77 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Continued) Foreign Defined Benefit Pension Plans: 2016 2015 (In thousands) Change in projected benefit obligation: Net projected benefit obligation at the beginning of the year $ 243,924 $ 197,671 Service cost 3,134 3,076 Interest cost 7,896 7,910 Foreign currency translation adjustments (39,910 ) (14,337 ) Employee contributions 256 303 Actuarial losses (gains) 52,248 (6,892 ) Expenses paid from assets (770 ) (610 ) Gross benefits paid (8,475 ) (8,064 ) Plan amendments (6 )  Acquisition  64,867 Net projected benefit obligation at the end of the year $ 258,297 $ 243,924 Change in plan assets: Fair value of plan assets at the beginning of the year $ 213,296 $ 159,907 Actual return on plan assets 14,346 7,471 Employer contributions 5,886 4,490 Employee contributions 256 303 Foreign currency translation adjustments (35,604 ) (10,584 ) Expenses paid from assets (770 ) (610 ) Gross benefits paid (8,475 ) (8,064 ) Acquisition  60,383 Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year $ 188,935 $ 213,296 The accumulated benefit obligation consisted of the following at December31: U.S. Defined Benefit Pension Plans: 2016 2015 (In thousands) Funded plans $ 480,249 $ 454,498 Unfunded plans 6,212 5,481 Total $ 486,461 $ 459,979 78 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Continued) Foreign Defined Benefit Pension Plans: 2016 2015 (In thousands) Funded plans $ 213,877 $ 203,229 Unfunded plans 33,924 30,327 Total $ 247,801 $ 233,556 Weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at December31: 2016 2015 U.S. Defined Benefit Pension Plans: Discount rate 4.25 % 4.80 % Rate of compensation increase (where applicable) 3.75 % 3.75 % Foreign Defined Benefit Pension Plans: Discount rate 2.56 % 3.62 % Rate of compensation increase (where applicable) 2.50 % 2.88 % The following is a summary of the fair value of plan assets for U.S. plans at December31, 2016 and 2015 in accordance with the retrospective adoption of ASU No.2015-07, Disclosures for Investments in Certain Entities That Calculate Net Asset Value per Share (or Its Equivalent ) (ASU2015-07).
December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Asset Class Total Level 1 Level 2 Total Level 1 Level 2 (In thousands) Corporate debt instruments $ 2,662 $  $ 2,662 $ 5,617 $  $ 5,617 Corporate debt instruments - Preferred 8,880  8,880 9,835  9,835 Corporate stocks - Common 109,881 109,881  118,673 118,673  Municipal bonds 777  777 1,003  1,003 Registered investment companies 251,054 251,054  202,522 202,522  U.S. Government securities    113  113 Total investments 373,254 360,935 12,319 337,763 321,195 16,568 Investments measured at net asset value 143,819   171,012   Total investments $ 517,073 $ 360,935 $ 12,319 $ 508,775 $ 321,195 $ 16,568 U.S. equity securities and global equity securities categorized as level1 are traded on national and international exchanges and are valued at their closing prices on the last trading day of the year. For U.S. equity securities and global equity securities not traded on an active exchange, or if the closing price is not available, the trustee obtains indicative quotes from a pricing vendor, broker or investment manager. These securities are categorized as level2 if the custodian obtains corroborated quotes from a pricing vendor. Additionally, some U.S. equity securities and global equity securities are public investment vehicles valued using the Net Asset Value (NAV) provided by the fund manager. The NAV is the total value of the fund divided by the number of shares outstanding.
79 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Continued) Fixed income securities categorized as level1 are traded on national and international exchanges and are valued at their closing prices on the last trading day of the year and categorized as level2 if valued by the trustee using pricing models that use verifiable observable market data, bids provided by brokers or dealers or quoted prices of securities with similar characteristics.
Alternative investments categorized as level3 are valued based on unobservable inputs and cannot be corroborated using verifiable observable market data. Investments in level 3 funds are redeemable, however, cash reimbursement may be delayed or a portion held back until asset finalization.
The expected long-term rate of return on these plan assets was 7.75% in both 2016 and 2015. Equity securities included 512,565shares of AMETEK, Inc. common stock with a market value of $24.9million (4.8% of total plan investment assets) at December31, 2016 and 512,565shares of AMETEK, Inc. common stock with a market value of $27.5million (5.4% of total plan investment assets) at December31, 2015.
The objectives of the AMETEK, Inc. U.S. defined benefit plans investment strategy are to maximize the plans funded status and minimize Company contributions and plan expense. Because the goal is to optimize returns over the long term, an investment policy that favors equity holdings has been established. Since there may be periods of time where both equity and fixed-income markets provide poor returns, an allocation to alternative assets may be made to improve the overall portfolios diversification and return potential. The Company periodically reviews its asset allocation, taking into consideration plan liabilities, plan benefit payment streams and the investment strategy of the pension plans. The actual asset allocation is monitored frequently relative to the established targets and ranges and is rebalanced when necessary. The target allocations for the U.S. defined benefits plans are approximately 50%equity securities, 20%fixed-income securities and 30%other securities and/or cash.
The equity portfolio is diversified by market capitalization and style. The equity portfolio also includes international components.
The objective of the fixed-income portion of the pension assets is to provide interest rate sensitivity for a portion of the assets and to provide diversification. The fixed-income portfolio is diversified within certain quality and maturity guidelines in an attempt to minimize the adverse effects of interest rate fluctuations.
Other than for investments in alternative assets, certain investments are prohibited. Prohibited investments include venture capital, private placements, unregistered or restricted stock, margin trading, commodities, short selling and rights and warrants. Foreign currency futures, options and forward contracts may be used to manage foreign currency exposure.
The following is a summary of the fair value of plan assets for foreign defined benefit pension plans at December31, 2016 and 2015 in accordance with the retrospective adoption of ASU2015-07.
December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Asset Class Total Level 3 Total Level 3 (In thousands) Life insurance $ 18,147 $ 18,147 $ 20,486 $ 20,486 Total investments 18,147 18,147 20,486 20,486 Investments measured at net asset value 170,788  192,810  Total investments $ 188,935 $ 18,147 $ 213,296 $ 20,486 80 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Continued) Life insurance assets are considered level3 investments as their values are determined by the sponsor using unobservable market data.
The following is a summary of the changes in the fair value of the foreign plans level3 investments (fair value determined using significant unobservable inputs): LifeInsurance (In thousands) Balance, December 31, 2014 $ 8,888 Actual return on assets: Unrealized (losses) relating to instruments still held at the end of the year (980 ) Realized gains (losses) relating to assets sold during the year  Purchases, sales, issuances and settlements, net 12,578 Balance, December 31, 2015 20,486 Actual return on assets: Unrealized (losses) relating to instruments still held at the end of the year (2,339 ) Realized gains (losses) relating to assets sold during the year  Purchases, sales, issuances and settlements, net  Balance, December 31, 2016 $ 18,147 The objective of AMETEK, Inc.s foreign defined benefit plans investment strategy is to maximize the long-term rate of return on plan investments, subject to a reasonable level of risk. Liability studies are also performed on a regular basis to provide guidance in setting investment goals with an objective to balance risks against the current and future needs of the plans. The trustees consider the risk associated with the different asset classes, relative to the plans liabilities and how this can be affected by diversification, and the relative returns available on equities, fixed-income investments, real estate and cash. Also, the likely volatility of those returns and the cash flow requirements of the plans are considered. It is expected that equities will outperform fixed-income investments over the long term. However, the trustees recognize the fact that fixed-income investments may better match the liabilities for pensioners. Because of the relatively young active employee group covered by the plans and the immature nature of the plans, the trustees have chosen to adopt an asset allocation strategy more heavily weighted toward equity investments. This asset allocation strategy will be reviewed, from time to time, in view of changes in market conditions and in the plans liability profile. The target allocations for the foreign defined benefit plans are approximately 70%equity securities, 15%fixed-income securities and 15%other securities, insurance or cash.
The assumption for the expected return on plan assets was developed based on a review of historical investment returns for the investment categories for the defined benefit pension assets. This review also considered current capital market conditions and projected future investment returns. The estimates of future capital market returns by asset class are lower than the actual long-term historical returns. The current low interest rate environment influences this outlook. Therefore, the assumed rate of return for U.S. plans is 7.50% and 6.79% for foreign plans in 2017.
81 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Continued) The projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for pension plans with a projected benefit obligation in excess of plan assets and pension plans with an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets were as follows at December31: U.S. Defined Benefit Pension Plans: Projected Benefit AccumulatedBenefit ObligationExceedsFair ObligationExceedsFair Value of Assets Fair Value of Assets 2016 2015 2016 2015 (In thousands) Benefit obligation $ 26,356 $ 5,481 $ 26,356 $ 5,481 Fair value of plan assets 19,059  19,059  Foreign Defined Benefit Pension Plans: Projected Benefit Accumulated Benefit Obligation Exceeds Obligation Exceeds Fair Value of Assets Fair Value of Assets 2016 2015 2016 2015 (In thousands) Benefit obligation $ 215,893 $ 161,711 $ 209,377 $ 155,169 Fair value of plan assets 146,480 119,045 146,480 119,045 The following table provides the amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheet at December31: 2016 2015 (In thousands) Funded status asset (liability): Fair value of plan assets $ 706,008 $ 722,071 Projected benefit obligation (757,147 ) (716,401 ) Funded status at the end of the year $ (51,139 ) $ 5,670 Amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheet consisted of: Noncurrent asset for pension benefits (other assets) $ 25,571 $ 53,817 Current liabilities for pension benefits (1,393 ) (1,001 ) Noncurrent liability for pension benefits (75,317 ) (47,146 ) Net amount recognized at the end of the year $ (51,139 ) $ 5,670 The following table provides the amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of taxes, at December31: Net amounts recognized: 2016 2015 (In thousands) Net actuarial loss $ 204,782 $ 156,351 Prior service costs (1,031 ) (1,321 ) Transition asset 7 8 Total recognized $ 203,758 $ 155,038 82 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Continued) The following table provides the components of net periodic pension benefit expense (income) for the years ended December31: 2016 2015 2014 (In thousands) Defined benefit plans: Service cost $ 6,622 $ 7,000 $ 6,153 Interest cost 30,049 28,670 28,931 Expected return on plan assets (51,140 ) (54,819 ) (50,196 ) Amortization of: Net actuarial loss 10,224 9,383 4,483 Prior service costs (52 ) (55 ) (51 ) Transition asset 1 1 1 Total net periodic benefit (income) expense (4,296 ) (9,820 ) (10,679 ) Other plans: Defined contribution plans 23,881 22,750 20,714 Foreign plans and other 5,694 4,800 5,325 Total other plans 29,575 27,550 26,039 Total net pension expense $ 25,279 $ 17,730 $ 15,360 The total net periodic benefit expense (income) is included in Cost of sales in the consolidated statement of income. The estimated amount that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income into net periodic pension benefit expense in 2017 for the net actuarial losses and prior service costs is expected to be $14.0million.
The following weighted average assumptions were used to determine the above net periodic pension benefit expense for the years ended December31: 2016 2015 2014 U.S. Defined Benefit Pension Plans: Discount rate 4.80 % 4.20 % 5.00 % Expected return on plan assets 7.75 % 7.75 % 7.75 % Rate of compensation increase (where applicable) 3.75 % 3.75 % 3.75 % Foreign Defined Benefit Pension Plans: Discount rate 3.62 % 3.44 % 4.38 % Expected return on plan assets 6.95 % 6.92 % 6.93 % Rate of compensation increase (where applicable) 2.88 % 2.88 % 2.92 % Estimated Future Benefit Payments The estimated future benefit payments for U.S. and foreign plans are as follows: 2017 -$37.3million; 2018-$38.5million; 2019-$39.4million; 2020-$40.5million; 2021-$41.2million; 2022 to 2026-$217.5million.
Future benefit payments primarily represent amounts to be paid from pension trust assets. Amounts included that are to be paid from the Companys assets are not significant in any individual year.
83 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Continued) Postretirement Plans and Postemployment Benefits The Company provides limited postretirement benefits other than pensions for certain retirees and a small number of former employees. Benefits under these arrangements are not funded and are not significant.
The Company also provides limited postemployment benefits for certain former or inactive employees after employment but before retirement. Those benefits are not significant in amount.
The Company has a deferred compensation plan, which allows employees whose compensation exceeds the statutory IRS limit for retirement benefits to defer a portion of earned bonus compensation. The plan permits deferred amounts to be deemed invested in either, or a combination of, (a) an interest-bearing account, benefits from which are payable out of the general assets of the Company, or (b) the equivalent of a fund which invests in shares of the Companys common stock on behalf of the employee. The amount deferred under the plan, including income earned, was $25.2million and $23.4million at December31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Administrative expense for the deferred compensation plan is borne by the Company and is not significant.
12.
Guarantees The Company does not provide significant guarantees on a routine basis. The Company primarily issues guarantees, stand-by letters of credit and surety bonds in the ordinary course of its business to provide financial or performance assurance to third parties on behalf of its consolidated subsidiaries to support or enhance the subsidiarys stand-alone creditworthiness. The amounts subject to certain of these agreements vary depending on the covered contracts actually outstanding at any particular point in time. At December31, 2016, the maximum amount of future payment obligations relative to these various guarantees was $70.2million and the outstanding liability under certain of those guarantees was $9.9million.
Indemnifications In conjunction with certain acquisition and divestiture transactions, the Company may agree to make payments to compensate or indemnify other parties for possible future unfavorable financial consequences resulting from specified events (e.g., breaches of contract obligations or retention of previously existing environmental, tax or employee liabilities) whose terms range in duration and often are not explicitly defined. Where appropriate, the obligation for such indemnifications is recorded as a liability. Because the amount of these types of indemnifications generally is not specifically stated, the overall maximum amount of the obligation under such indemnifications cannot be reasonably estimated. Further, the Company indemnifies its directors and officers for claims against them in connection with their positions with the Company. Historically, any such costs incurred to settle claims related to these indemnifications have been minimal for the Company. The Company believes that future payments, if any, under all existing indemnification agreements would not have a material impact on its consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
Product Warranties The Company provides limited warranties in connection with the sale of its products. The warranty periods for products sold vary among the Companys operations, but generally do not exceed one year. The Company calculates its warranty expense provision based on its historical warranty experience and adjustments are made periodically to reflect actual warranty expenses.
84 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Continued) Changes in the accrued product warranty obligation were as follows at December31: 2016 2015 2014 (In thousands) Balance at the beginning of the year $ 22,761 $ 29,764 $ 28,036 Accruals for warranties issued during the year 16,046 14,817 16,463 Settlements made during the year (17,732 ) (19,905 ) (17,636 ) Warranty accruals related to acquired businesses and other during the year 932 (1,915 ) 2,901 Balance at the end of the year $ 22,007 $ 22,761 $ 29,764 Certain settlements of warranties made during the period were for specific nonrecurring warranty obligations. Product warranty obligations are reported as current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.
13.
Contingencies Asbestos Litigation The Company (including its subsidiaries) has been named as a defendant in a number of asbestos-related lawsuits. Certain of these lawsuits relate to a business which was acquired by the Company and do not involve products which were manufactured or sold by the Company. In connection with these lawsuits, the seller of such business has agreed to indemnify the Company against these claims (the Indemnified Claims). The Indemnified Claims have been tendered to, and are being defended by, such seller. The seller has met its obligations, in all respects, and the Company does not have any reason to believe such party would fail to fulfill its obligations in the future. To date, no judgments have been rendered against the Company as a result of any asbestos-related lawsuit. The Company believes it has strong defenses to the claims being asserted and intends to continue to vigorously defend itself in these matters.
Environmental Matters Certain historic processes in the manufacture of products have resulted in environmentally hazardous waste by-products as defined by federal and state laws and regulations. At December31, 2016, the Company is named a Potentially Responsible Party (PRP) at 13 non-AMETEK-owned former waste disposal or treatment sites (the non-owned sites). The Company is identified as a de minimis party in 12 of these sites based on the low volume of waste attributed to the Company relative to the amounts attributed to other named PRPs. In eight of these sites, the Company has reached a tentative agreement on the cost of the deminimis settlement to satisfy its obligation and is awaiting executed agreements. The tentatively agreed-to settlement amounts are fully reserved. In the other four sites, the Company is continuing to investigate the accuracy of the alleged volume attributed to the Company as estimated by the parties primarily responsible for remedial activity at the sites to establish an appropriate settlement amount. At the remaining site where the Company is a non-de minimis PRP, the Company is participating in the investigation and/or related required remediation as part of a PRP Group and reserves have been established sufficient to satisfy the Companys expected obligations. The Company historically has resolved these issues within established reserve levels and reasonably expects this result will continue. In addition to these non-owned sites, the Company has an ongoing practice of providing reserves for probable remediation activities at certain of its current or previously owned manufacturing locations (the owned sites). For claims and proceedings against the Company with respect to other environmental matters, reserves are established once the Company has determined that a loss is probable and estimable. This estimate is refined as the Company moves through the various stages of investigation, risk assessment, feasibility study and corrective action processes. In 85 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Continued) certain instances, the Company has developed a range of estimates for such costs and has recorded a liability based on the best estimate. It is reasonably possible that the actual cost of remediation of the individual sites could vary from the current estimates and the amounts accrued in the consolidated financial statements; however, the amounts of such variances are not expected to result in a material change to the consolidated financial statements. In estimating the Companys liability for remediation, the Company also considers the likely proportionate share of the anticipated remediation expense and the ability of the other PRPs to fulfill their obligations.
Total environmental reserves at December31, 2016 and 2015 were $28.4million and $30.5million, respectively, for both non-owned and owned sites. In 2016, the Company recorded $4.1million in reserves. Additionally, the Company spent $5.4million on environmental matters and the reserve decreased $0.8million due to foreign currency translation in 2016. The Companys reserves for environmental liabilities at December31, 2016 and 2015 include reserves of $12.4million and $11.5million, respectively, for an owned site acquired in connection with the 2005 acquisition of HCC Industries (HCC). The Company is the designated performing party for the performance of remedial activities for one of several operating units making up a Superfund site in the SanGabriel Valley of California. The Company has obtained indemnifications and other financial assurances from the former owners of HCC related to the costs of the required remedial activities. At December31, 2016, the Company had $11.9million in receivables related to HCC for probable recoveries from third-party escrow funds and other committed third-party funds to support the required remediation. Also, the Company is indemnified by HCCs former owners for approximately $19million of additional costs.
The Company has agreements with other former owners of certain of its acquired businesses, as well as new owners of previously owned businesses. Under certain of the agreements, the former or new owners retained, or assumed and agreed to indemnify the Company against, certain environmental and other liabilities under certain circumstances. The Company and some of these other parties also carry insurance coverage for some environmental matters. To date, these parties have met their obligations in all material respects.
The Company believes it has established reserves which are sufficient to perform all known responsibilities under existing claims and consent orders. The Company has no reason to believe that other third parties would fail to perform their obligations in the future. In the opinion of management, based on presently available information and the Companys historical experience related to such matters, an adequate provision for probable costs has been made and the ultimate cost resulting from these actions is not expected to materially affect the consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows of the Company.
14.
Leases and Other Commitments Minimum aggregate rental commitments under noncancellable leases in effect at December31, 2016 (principally for production and administrative facilities and equipment) amounted to $143.5million, consisting of payments of $33.0million in 2017, $25.2million in 2018, $19.4million in 2019, $14.5million in 2020, $12.2million in 2021 and $39.2million thereafter. The leases expire over a range of years from 2017 to 2082, with renewal or purchase options, subject to various terms and conditions, contained in most of the leases. Rental expense was $46.3million in 2016, $43.6million in 2015 and $44.6million in 2014.
As of December31, 2016 and 2015, the Company had $289.1million and $321.7million, respectively, in purchase obligations outstanding, which primarily consisted of contractual commitments to purchase certain inventories at fixed prices.
86 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Continued) 15.
Reportable Segments and Geographic Areas Information Descriptive Information about Reportable Segments The Company has two reportable segments, EIG and EMG. The Companys operating segments are identified based on the existence of segment managers. Certain of the Companys operating segments have been aggregated for segment reporting purposes primarily on the basis of product type, production processes, distribution methods and similarity of economic characteristics.
EIG manufactures advanced instruments for the process, power and industrial, and aerospace markets. It provides process and analytical instruments for the oil, gas, petrochemical, pharmaceutical, semiconductor and automation markets. It provides instruments for the laboratory equipment, ultraprecision manufacturing, medical, and test and measurement markets. It makes power quality monitoring and metering devices, industrial battery chargers and uninterruptible power supplies, programmable power equipment, electrical test equipment and gas turbine sensors. It provides dashboard instruments for heavy trucks and other vehicles as well as timing controls and cooking computers for the food service industry. It supplies the aerospace industry with aircraft and engine sensors, monitoring systems, power instruments, data acquisition units, and fuel and fluid measurement systems.
EMG is a differentiated supplier of precision motion control solutions, thermal management systems, specialty metals and electrical interconnects. It makes precision motion control products for data storage, medical devices, business equipment, automation and other applications. It manufacturers highly engineered electrical connectors and packaging used to protect sensitive electronic devices. It provides high-purity metals, metal strip, shaped wire and advanced composites for a wide range of industrial applications. It operates a global network of aviation maintenance, repair and overhaul facilities. It manufactures motors used in commercial appliances, fitness equipment, food and beverage machines, hydraulic pumps, industrial blowers and vacuum cleaners.
Measurement of Segment Results Segment operating income represents net sales less all direct costs and expenses (including certain administrative and other expenses) applicable to each segment, but does not include interest expense. Net sales by segment are reported after elimination of intra- and intersegment sales and profits, which are insignificant in amount. Reported segment assets include allocations directly related to the segments operations. Corporate assets consist primarily of investments, prepaid pensions, insurance deposits and deferred taxes.
87 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Continued) Reportable Segment Financial Information 2016 2015 2014 (In thousands) Net sales (1) : Electronic Instruments $ 2,360,285 $ 2,417,192 $ 2,421,638 Electromechanical 1,479,802 1,557,103 1,600,326 Consolidated net sales $ 3,840,087 $ 3,974,295 $ 4,021,964 Operating income and income before income taxes: Segment operating income (2) : Electronic Instruments $ 577,717 $ 639,399 $ 612,992 Electromechanical 277,873 318,098 335,046 Total segment operating income 855,590 957,497 948,038 Corporate administrative and other expenses (53,693 ) (49,781 ) (49,452 ) Consolidated operating income 801,897 907,716 898,586 Interest and other expenses, net (108,794 ) (101,336 ) (93,754 ) Consolidated income before income taxes $ 693,103 $ 806,380 $ 804,832 Assets: Electronic Instruments $ 4,104,972 $ 3,827,182 Electromechanical 2,446,180 2,541,253 Total segment assets 6,551,152 6,368,435 Corporate 549,522 292,015 Consolidated assets $ 7,100,674 $ 6,660,450 Additions to property, plant and equipment (3) : Electronic Instruments $ 45,091 $ 32,069 $ 95,787 Electromechanical 39,340 88,369 35,404 Total segment additions to property, plant and equipment 84,431 120,438 131,191 Corporate 1,914 2,121 1,966 Consolidated additions to property, plant and equipment $ 86,345 $ 122,559 $ 133,157 Depreciation and amortization: Electronic Instruments $ 104,284 $ 83,832 $ 75,364 Electromechanical 73,767 64,539 61,770 Total segment depreciation and amortization 178,051 148,371 137,134 Corporate 1,665 1,089 1,450 Consolidated depreciation and amortization $ 179,716 $ 149,460 $ 138,584 (1) After elimination of intra- and intersegment sales, which are not significant in amount.
(2) Segment operating income represents net sales less all direct costs and expenses (including certain administrative and other expenses) applicable to each segment, but does not include interest expense.
(3) Includes $23.1million in 2016, $53.4million in 2015 and $61.8million in 2014 from acquired businesses.
88 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Continued) Geographic Areas Information about the Companys operations in different geographic areas for the years ended December31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 is shown below. Net sales were attributed to geographic areas based on the location of the customer. Accordingly, U.S. export sales are reported in international sales.
2016 2015 2014 (In thousands) Net sales: United States $ 1,829,341 $ 1,919,611 $ 1,825,799 International (1) : United Kingdom 188,700 201,192 220,877 European Union countries 619,138 615,956 674,608 Asia 785,868 789,435 806,926 Other foreign countries 417,040 448,101 493,754 Total international 2,010,746 2,054,684 2,196,165 Total consolidated $ 3,840,087 $ 3,974,295 $ 4,021,964 Long-lived assets from continuing operations (excluding intangibleassets): United States $ 322,743 $ 313,733 International (2) : United Kingdom 59,208 68,396 European Union countries 58,368 66,635 Asia 12,204 13,928 Other foreign countries 20,707 21,856 Total international 150,487 170,815 Total consolidated $ 473,230 $ 484,548 (1) Includes U.S. export sales of $1,036.0million in 2016, $1,090.7million in 2015 and $1,148.1million in 2014.
(2) Represents long-lived assets of foreign-based operations only.
16.
Additional Consolidated Income Statement and Cash Flow Information Included in other income are interest and other investment income of $1.2million, $0.7million and $1.1million for 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Income taxes paid in 2016, 2015 and 2014 were $180.8million, $157.8million and $211.6million, respectively. Cash paid for interest was $91.8million, $90.8million and $74.9million in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively.
89 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Continued) 17.
Stockholders Equity In 2015, the Company repurchased approximately 7,978,000shares of its common stock for $435.4million in cash under its share repurchase authorization. On both April1 and November4, 2015, the Companys Board of Directors approved an increase of $350million in the authorization for the repurchase of Companys common stock. At December31, 2015, $311.7million was available under the Companys Board of Directors authorization for future share repurchases. In 2016, the Company repurchased approximately 7,099,000 shares of its common stock for $336.1million in cash under its share repurchase authorization. On November2, 2016, the Companys Board of Directors approved an increase of $400million in the authorization for the repurchase of the Companys common stock. At December31, 2016, $375.6million was available under the Companys Board of Directors authorization for future share repurchases.
At December31, 2016, the Company held 32.1million shares in its treasury at a cost of $1,211.5million, compared with 25.2million shares at a cost of $885.4million at December31, 2015. The number of shares outstanding at December31, 2016 was 229.4million shares, compared with 235.5million shares at December31, 2015.
The Company has a Shareholder Rights Plan, under which the Companys Board of Directors declared a dividend of one Right for each share of Company common stock owned at the close of business on June2, 2007, and has authorized the issuance of one Right for each share of common stock of the Company issued between the Record Date and the Distribution Date. The Plan provides, under certain conditions involving acquisition of the Companys common stock, that holders of Rights, except for the acquiring entity, would be entitled (i) to purchase shares of preferred stock at a specified exercise price, or (ii) to purchase shares of common stock of the Company, or the acquiring company, having a value of twice the Rights exercise price. The Rights under the Plan expire in June2017.
18.
2016 and 2015 Restructuring Charges During the fourth quarter of 2016, the Company recorded pre-tax restructuring charges totaling $25.6million, which had the effect of reducing net income by $17.0million ($0.07 per diluted share). The restructuring charges were reported in the consolidated statement of income as follows: $24.0million in Cost of sales and $1.6million in Selling, general and administrative expenses. The restructuring charges were reported in segment operating income as follows: $12.4million in EIG, $11.6million in EMG and $1.6million in corporate administrative expenses. The restructuring actions primarily related to $19.3million in severance costs for a reduction in workforce and $6.2million of asset write-downs in response to the impact of a weak global economy on certain of the Companys businesses and the effects of a continued strong U.S.dollar. The restructuring activities will be broadly implemented across the Companys various businesses through the end of 2017, with most actions expected to be completed in 2018.
During the fourth quarter of 2015, the Company recorded pre-tax restructuring charges totaling $20.7million, which had the effect of reducing net income by $13.9million ($0.06 per diluted share). The restructuring charges were reported in the consolidated statement of income as follows: $20.0million in Cost of sales and $0.7million in Selling, general and administrative expenses. The restructuring charges were reported in segment operating income as follows: $9.3million in EIG, $10.8million in EMG and $0.7million in corporate administrative expenses. The restructuring actions primarily related to a reduction in workforce in response to the impact of a weak global economy on certain of the Companys businesses and the effects of a continued strong U.S.dollar. The restructuring activities have been broadly implemented across the Companys various businesses with all actions expected to be completed in the second half of 2017.
90 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Continued) During the first quarter of 2015, the Company recorded pre-tax restructuring charges totaling $15.9million, which had the effect of reducing net income by $10.8million ($0.04 per diluted share). The restructuring charges were reported in the consolidated statement of income as follows: $15.8million in Cost of sales and $0.1million in Selling, general and administrative expenses. The restructuring charges were reported in segment operating income as follows: $9.3million in EIG, $6.5million in EMG and $0.1million in corporate administrative expenses. The restructuring actions primarily related to a reduction in workforce in response to the impact of a weak global economy on certain of the Companys businesses and the effects of a continued strong U.S.dollar. The restructuring activities have been broadly implemented across the Companys various businesses with all actions completed in the second half of 2016.
Accrued liabilities in the Companys consolidated balance sheet included amounts related to the 2016 and 2015 restructuring charges as follows (in millions): FourthQuarter of 2016 Restructuring FourthQuarter of 2015 Restructuring FirstQuarter of 2015 Restructuring Total Balance at December 31, 2014 $  $  $  $  Pre-tax charges  20.7 15.9 36.6 Utilization  (1.4 ) (10.8 ) (12.2 ) Foreign currency translation adjustments and other   (0.1 ) (0.1 ) Balance at December 31, 2015  19.3 5.0 24.3 Pre-tax charges 25.6   25.6 Utilization (6.4 ) (9.2 ) (3.4 ) (19.0 ) Foreign currency translation adjustments and other  (0.9 ) (0.1 ) (1.0 ) Balance at December 31, 2016 $ 19.2 $ 9.2 $ 1.5 $ 29.9 91 Table of Contents AMETEK, Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Continued) 19.
Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Total Year (In thousands, except per share amounts) 2016 Net sales $ 944,398 $ 977,706 $ 945,030 $ 972,953 $ 3,840,087 Operating income (1)(2) $ 208,523 $ 219,036 $ 201,116 $ 173,222 $ 801,897 Net income (1)(2) $ 134,170 $ 138,193 $ 130,687 $ 109,108 $ 512,158 Basic earnings per share (1)(2)(3) $ 0.57 $ 0.59 $ 0.56 $ 0.47 $ 2.20 Diluted earnings per share (1)(2)(3) $ 0.57 $ 0.59 $ 0.56 $ 0.47 $ 2.19 Dividends paid per share $ 0.09 $ 0.09 $ 0.09 $ 0.09 $ 0.36 2015 Net sales $ 984,059 $ 1,003,726 $ 998,527 $ 987,983 $ 3,974,295 Operating income (4) $ 220,952 $ 240,319 $ 237,615 $ 208,830 $ 907,716 Net income (4) $ 142,107 $ 155,513 $ 156,398 $ 136,841 $ 590,859 Basic earnings per share (3)(4) $ 0.59 $ 0.64 $ 0.65 $ 0.58 $ 2.46 Diluted earnings per share (3)(4) $ 0.59 $ 0.64 $ 0.65 $ 0.57 $ 2.45 Dividends paid per share $ 0.09 $ 0.09 $ 0.09 $ 0.09 $ 0.36 (1) During 2016, the Company recorded pre-tax restructuring charges totaling $25.6million, recorded in the fourth quarter of 2016. The restructuring charges had the effect of reducing net income for 2016 by $17.0million ($0.07 per diluted share). See Note18.
(2) During 2016, the Company recorded a $13.9million non-cash impairment charge related to certain of the Companys trade names. The impairment charge had the effect of reducing net income for 2016 by $8.6million ($0.04 per diluted share). See Note6.
(3) The sum of quarterly earnings per share may not equal total year earnings per share due to rounding of earnings per share amounts, and differences in weighted average shares and equivalent shares outstanding for each of the periods presented.
(4) During 2015, the Company recorded pre-tax restructuring charges totaling $36.6million, with $15.9million recorded in the first quarter of 2015 and $20.7million recorded in the fourth quarter of 2015. The restructuring charges had the effect of reducing net income for 2015 by $24.7million ($0.10 per diluted share), with $10.8million net income reduction ($0.04 per diluted share) in the first quarter of 2015 and $13.9million net income reduction ($0.06 per diluted share) in the fourth quarter of 2015. See Note18.
92 Table of Contents Item9.
Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure None.
Item9A.
Controls and Procedures Disclosure Controls and Procedures The Company maintains a system of disclosure controls and procedures that is designed to provide reasonable assurance that information, which is required to be disclosed, is accumulated and communicated to management in a timely manner. Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including the Companys principal executive officer and principal financial officer, we have evaluated the effectiveness of our system of disclosure controls and procedures as required by Exchange Act Rule13a-15(b) as of December31, 2016. Based on that evaluation, the Companys principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that the Companys disclosure controls and procedures are effective at the reasonable assurance level.
Such evaluation did not identify any change in the Companys internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December31, 2016 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Companys internal control over financial reporting.
Internal Control over Financial Reporting Managements report on the Companys internal controls over financial reporting is included in PartII, Item8 of this Annual Report on Form10-K.
The report of the independent registered public accounting firm with respect to the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting is included in PartII, Item8 of this Annual Report on Form10-K.
Item9B.
Other Information None .
PART III Item10.
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance a) Directors of the Registrant.
Information with respect to Directors of the Company is set forth under the heading Election of Directors in the Companys Proxy Statement for the 2017Annual Meeting of Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference.
b) Executive Officers of the Registrant.
Information with respect to executive officers of the Company is set forth under the heading Executive Officers in the Companys Proxy Statement for the 2017Annual Meeting of Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference.
c) Section 16(a) Compliance.
Information concerning compliance with Section16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is set forth under the heading Compliance with Section16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in the Companys Proxy Statement for the 2017Annual Meeting of Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference.
d) Identification of the Audit Committee.
Information concerning the audit committee of the Company is set forth under the heading Committees of the Board in the Companys Proxy Statement for the 2017Annual Meeting of Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference.
93 Table of Contents e) Audit Committee Financial Expert.
Information concerning the audit committee financial expert of the Company is set forth under the heading Committees of the Board in the Companys Proxy Statement for the 2017Annual Meeting of Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference.
f) Corporate Governance/Nominating Committee.
Information concerning any material changes to the way in which security holders may recommend nominees to the Companys Board of Directors is set forth under the heading Corporate Governance in the Companys Proxy Statement for the 2017Annual Meeting of Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference.
g) Code of Ethics for Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers.
The Company has adopted a Code of Ethics for the principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer, which may be found on the Companys website at www.ametek.com . Any amendments to the Code of Ethics or any grant of a waiver from the provisions of the Code of Ethics requiring disclosure under applicable U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rules will be disclosed on the Companys website.
Item11.
Executive Compensation Information regarding executive compensation, including the Compensation Discussion and Analysis, the Report of the Compensation Committee, Compensation Tables and Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change of Control is set forth under the heading Executive Compensation in the Companys Proxy Statement for the 2017Annual Meeting of Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item12.
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Information regarding security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management appearing under Stock Ownership of Executive Officers and Directors and Beneficial Ownership of Principal Stockholders in the Companys Proxy Statement for the 2017Annual Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference.
Item13.
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence Information appearing under Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Independence in the Companys Proxy Statement for the 2017Annual Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference.
Item14.
Principal Accounting Fees and Services Information appearing under Ratification of Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm in the Companys Proxy Statement for the 2017Annual Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference.
94 Table of Contents PART IV Item15.
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules (1) Financial Statements: Financial statements are shown in the Index to Financial Statements included in PartII, Item8 of this Annual Report on Form10-K.
(2) Financial Statement Schedules: Financial statement schedules have been omitted because either they are not applicable or the required information is included in the financial statements or the notes thereto.
(3) Exhibits: Exhibits are shown in the index included in PartII, Item15(3) of this Annual Report on Form10-K.
95 Table of Contents SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
AMETEK,Inc.
By: /s/D AVID A. Z APICO David A. Zapico Chief Executive Officer Date: February 23, 2017 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
Signature Title Date /s/D AVID A. Z APICO David A. Zapico ChiefExecutiveOfficerandDirector (Principal Executive Officer) February 23, 2017 /s/W ILLIAM J. B URKE William J. Burke Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer (Principal Financial Officer) February 23, 2017 /s/T HOMAS M. M ONTGOMERY Thomas M. Montgomery Senior Vice President Comptroller (Principal Accounting Officer) February 23, 2017 /s/F RANK S. H ERMANCE Frank S. Hermance Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors February 23, 2017 /s/R UBY R. C HANDY Ruby R. Chandy Director February 23, 2017 /s/A NTHONY J. C ONTI Anthony J. Conti Director February 23, 2017 /s/S TEVEN W. K OHLHAGEN Steven W. Kohlhagen Director February 23, 2017 /s/J AMES R. M ALONE James R. Malone Director February 23, 2017 /s/G RETCHEN W. M C C LAIN Gretchen W. McClain Director February 23, 2017 96 Table of Contents Signature Title Date /s/E LIZABETH R. V ARET Elizabeth R. Varet Director February 23, 2017 /s/D ENNIS K. W ILLIAMS Dennis K. Williams Director February 23, 2017 97 Table of Contents Index to Exhibits Item 15(3) Exhibit Number Description Incorporated Herein by Reference to 3.1* Conformed Copy of Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of AMETEK, Inc. as amended to and including November29, 2016.
3.2 By-Laws of AMETEK, Inc. as amended to and including February10, 2017.
Exhibit 3.2 to Form 8-K, dated February13, 2017, SEC File No.
1-12981.
4.1 AMETEK, Inc. and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company as Rights Agent, Rights Agreement, dated as of June2, 2007.
Exhibit 4.1 to Form 8-K dated June5, 2007, SEC File No.
1-12981.
4.2 AMETEK, Inc. 2007 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan, dated as of April24, 2007 (the 2007 Plan).
Exhibit 4 to Form S-8 dated May10, 2007, SEC File No.
1-12981.
4.3 Amendment No. 1 to the 2007 Plan.
Exhibit 4.3 to 2012 Form 10-K, SEC File No.
1-12981.
4.4 AMETEK, Inc. 2011 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan, dated as of May3, 2011 (the 2011 Plan).
Exhibit 4 to Form S-8 dated May6, 2011, SEC File No.
1-12981.
4.5 Amendment No. 1 to the 2011 Plan.
Exhibit 4.5 to 2012 Form 10-K, SEC File No.
1-12981.
10.1 AMETEK, Inc. Retirement Plan for Directors, amended and restated effective January1, 2005.
Exhibit 10.4 to Form 10-Q dated September30, 2007, SEC File No.
1-12981.
10.2 AMETEK, Inc. Directors Deferred Compensation Plan, effective January1, 2012 Exhibit 10.2 to 2014 Form 10-K, SEC File No.
1-12981.
10.3* AMETEK, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan, amended and restated as of January1, 2017.
10.4* AMETEK, Inc. Supplemental Senior Executive Death Benefit Plan, effective January1, 2017.
10.5* AMETEK, Inc. 2004 Executive Death Benefit Plan, amended and restated effective January1, 2017.
10.6 AMETEK, Inc. Directors Death Benefit Plan, effective January1, 2005.
Exhibit 10.3 to Form 10-Q dated September30, 2007, SEC File No.
1-12981.
10.7 Form of Executive Change of Control Separation Agreement between AMETEK, Inc. and a named executive.
Exhibit 10.7 to Form 10-Q dated September30, 2007, SEC File No.
1-12981.
10.8 Termination and Change of Control Agreement between AMETEK, Inc. and a named executive, dated October24, 2007.
Exhibit 10.8 to Form 10-Q dated September30, 2007, SEC File No.
1-12981.
10.9 Amendment to the Termination and Change of Control Agreement between AMETEK, Inc. and a named executive, dated May 3, 2016.
Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-Q dated June30, 2016, SEC File No.
1-12981.
98 Table of Contents Exhibit Number Description Incorporated Herein by Reference to 10.10* The AMETEK Retirement and Savings Plan, amended and restated as of January1, 2017.
10.11 Form of Severance Benefit Agreement between the Company and certain executives of the Company.
Exhibit (10) (ww) to 1989 Form 10-K, SEC File No.
1-168.
10.12 Form of Supplemental Retirement Benefit Agreement between the Company and certain executives of the Company, as of May21, 1991.
Exhibit 10.61 to 1991 Form 10-K, SEC File No. 1-168.
10.13* AMETEK, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, amended and restated as of January1, 2017.
10.14 Form of Restricted Stock Agreement between AMETEK, Inc. and certain executives of AMETEK, Inc.
Exhibit 10.9 to Form 10-Q dated September30, 2007, SEC File No. 1-12981.
10.15 Amended and Restated Credit Agreement as of September22, 2011, as amended and restated as of March10, 2016, among AMETEK, Inc., the Foreign Subsidiary Borrowers Party Hereto, the Lenders Party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, and Bank of America, N.A., PNC Bank, National Association, SunTrust Bank and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Co-Syndication Agents.
Exhibit 10.1 to Form 8-K dated March14, 2016, SEC File No. 1-12981.
10.16 AMETEK, Inc. Note Purchase Agreement, as of August30, 2007.
Exhibit 10.1 to Form 8-K dated September5, 2007, SEC File No. 1-12981.
10.17 Amendment No. 1 to Note Purchase Agreement, as of August30, 2007.
Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-Q dated September30, 2014, SEC File No. 1-12981.
10.18 Amendment No. 2 to Note Purchase Agreement, as of August30, 2007.
Exhibit 10.2 to Form 10-Q dated September30, 2016, SEC File No. 1-12981.
10.19 AMETEK, Inc. Note Purchase Agreement, as of September17, 2008.
Exhibit 10.1 to Form 8-K dated September19, 2008, SEC File No. 1-12981.
10.20 Amendment No. 1 to Note Purchase Agreement, as of September17, 2008.
Exhibit 10.2 to Form 10-Q dated September30, 2014, SEC File No. 1-12981.
10.21 Amendment No. 2 to Note Purchase Agreement, as of September17, 2008.
Exhibit 10.3 to Form 10-Q dated September30, 2016, SEC File No. 1-12981.
10.22 AMETEK, Inc. Note Purchase Agreement, as of September30, 2014.
Exhibit 10.1 to Form 8-K dated October2, 2014, SEC File No. 1-12981.
10.23 Amendment No. 1 to Note Purchase Agreement, as of September30, 2014.
Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-Q dated September30, 2016, SEC File No. 1-12981.
10.24 AMETEK, Inc. Note Purchase Agreement, as of October31, 2016.
Exhibit 10.1 to Form 8-K dated November2, 2016, SEC File No. 1-12981.
99 Table of Contents Exhibit Number Description Incorporated Herein by Reference to 12* Statement regarding computation of ratio of earnings to fixed charges.
21* Subsidiaries of the Registrant.
23* Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.
31.1* Certification of Chief Executive Officer, Pursuant to Section302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
31.2* Certification of Chief Financial Officer, Pursuant to Section302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
32.1* Certification of Chief Executive Officer, Pursuant to Section906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
32.2* Certification of Chief Financial Officer, Pursuant to Section906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
101.INS* XBRL Instance Document.
101.SCH* XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.
101.CAL* XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.
101.DEF* XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document.
101.LAB* XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.
101.PRE* XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document.
Management contract or compensatory plan required to be filed pursuant to Item 601 of Regulation S-K.
* Filed electronically herewith.